<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<title>CONVOCATION ADDRESSES OF THE MYSORE UNIVERSITY</title>
	<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" />
</head>
<body class="maintext">
	<section class="level1 unnumbered" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" id="id-000c">
		<h1 class="level1-title" epub:type="title">FOREWORD</h1>
		<p>The University of Mysore had brought out a Compendium of the Convocation Addresses delivered at the Annual Convocations of the University of Mysore eversince 1918 to 1993. This Compendium was brought out to mark the Platinum Jubilee Year of the University. Unfortunately, while bringing out the Compendium certain convocation addresses were not available and had been lost fror the annals of the University of Mysore. It has been our effort to trace out and compile the pearls of wisdom which were bestowed on the University in the form of Annual Convocation Addresses and publish an Addendum to the previous Compendium</p>
<p>The Addendum contains13 Annual Convocation Addresses which, indeed would provide encouragement not only to the student community but also to the esteemed teachers of the University. We are sure that by perusing through these Addresses delivered by men of great eminence who have assisted in shaping the future of this great country, would also inspire the students and teachers and all concerned who have endeavoured to make this University as one of the leading lights of education in the country.</p>
<p>MYSORE-570 005<br /> November 15, 1995</p>
<p class="text-right">Prof. M. MADAIAH<br />Vice-Chancellor</p>
<p class="text-right">SANDEEP DAVE, 1.A.S. <br />Registrar</p>
	</section>
	<section class="level1 unnumbered" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" id="id-000c.1">
		<h1 class="level1-title" epub:type="title">PUBLISHERS NOTE</h1>
		<p>The convocation addresses delivered at the Annual Convocation of the University of Mysore from 1918 to 1993 have already been brought out in a compendious form. The addresses which were left from it, due to the ponavailability, are now traced and being compiled into a separate volume.</p>
<p>These convocation addresses have got a historical Importance, as they highlight the changes in the academic system from time to time, the problems arising, the reactions and the responses. The works of compilation will serve as treasures to those who intend to study the history of the academic system.</p>
<p>Such works are invatuable. Therefore Prasaranga is proud of publishing this work as a supplement to the original work of convocation addresses and presenting this to the reader. This work should be taken with the original work as a whole and not seperately. We hope that this book would fulfil what is lacking in the provious one. We put this before you with a belief that this would serve as a handbook for the research students, scholars, teachers and those who are interested in the study of the academic system. We hope that this book will be heartily accepied as the previous one.</p>
<p class="text-right"><strong>Dr. ARAVIND MALAGATTI</strong><br /> Director</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
