<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<title>CONVOCATION ADDRESSES OF THE MYSORE UNIVERSITY</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/style.css" />
</head>
<body class="maintext">
	<section class="level1 numbered" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" id="id-001">
		<h1 class="level1-title" epub:type="title">Address delivered at the Convocation of the University of Mysore on Saturday 8th December 1951, by Raiasevasaktha Sri A. R. Wadia, Pro-Vice-Chancellor MS. University of Baroda</h1>
		<p><strong>YOUR HIGHNESS AND MEMBERS OF THE CONVOCATION,</strong></p>
		<p>For over twenty-five years it was my privilege to listen to the Convocation Addresses given year after year to the graduates of Mysore University. If it has fallen to my lot to figure in the long and distinguished list of persons who have addressed the Convocations of this University, I cannot but attribute it to Your Highness's gracious kindness and I have no words in which I could adequately give expression to my feeling of deep gratitude. I am aware that I can lay no claim to those great qualities which my predecessors, some of them the tallest in our land, possessed to a remarkable degree. But I can lay claim to one merit: that I am one of you. I had the honour to be the first new professor to be recruited after the University had come into existence. I practically started my career here. I have grown with the University and marked its growth from two constituent colleges in 1916 to thirty-two colleges, whether constituent or affiliated, in 1951. Its budget has grown from Rs. 8.7 lakhs in 1916-17 to nearly Rs. 55 lakhs in 1950-51. In these thirty-six years Mysore University has produced scholars and leaders, who are now scattered all over India. A kindly destiny has made me travel and live in various parts of India and wherever I have gone I have found Mysoreans, graduates of this University and many of them my students. It has been a source of pride to me and I can justifiably claim to share in the joys and honours won by Mysore University. It is a great pleasure to come back to old familiar scenes. Of course time has done its cruel work and I miss some dear old colleagues: the saintly and scholarly Hiriyanna, Shama Sastri of ArthaSastra fame, Subrahmanya Iyer with his razor-keen intellect, Srinivasa Iyengar with his subtle and masterly philosophic grasp, B.M. Srikantia with his placid dignity and literary flair, and last but not the least my old chief, C.R. Reddy, who played a leading part at the birth of this University and who was still serving it, when he passed away to the sorrow of us all. But there still remain many kind and loving faces to greet me and I feel like returning home. A recent visitor to Mysore described it as a sleepy place, but where else in India or in the world can we find a place more suited to the life of the scholar and the aesthete than Mysore with its majestic Chamundi and its lakes and its glorious sunsets and its old cultural traditions fostered by a long line of rulers devoted to the welfare of their subjects and to the arts and sciences, philosophy and music, which make life here so fine and beautiful ? There has been an age-old healthy rivalry between Bangalore and Mysore. We shall not grudge Bangalore its height or its parks, its industries or its science laboratories, so long as Mysore can continue to enjoy its peace and beauty, its capacity to look at life as a whole and rise above the petty pit-falls of daily existence.</p>
		<p>It is not uncommon to find a Convocation Address deal with the affairs of the world, with the high politics of Washington and Moscow, or the merits and demerits of rival parties in our own country. But I shall not permit myself to forget that I am first and foremost an educationist and in the brief space of time available to me, I would rather deal with some educational problems that face our Universities and have given rise to very anxious deliberations.</p>
		<p class="text-center"><strong>The Medium of Instruction</strong></p>
		<p>With the birth of free India no problem in our educational system has sprung to such prominence as the language question. No one can hope to be original in this discussion, but the discussions of this topic both in the press and on public platforms disclose so much woolliness of ideas and confusion of the fundamentals that I am tempted to put the problem in a correct perspective, and the only correct perspective is historical.</p>
		<p>Our educational system has been often attacked as being unnatural, based as it has been on a foreign language like English as the medium of instruction. Lord Macaulay has been looked upon by some as the villain of the piece who gave a wrong twist to education in India. But the whole history of India during the 19th century goes to uphold the wisdom and the statesmanship of Macaulay. A study of the early records of the British in India goes to show that there were many Englishmen, including the great Warren Hastings, who sincerely felt that they could best advance the cultural interests of India by establishing and maintaining Sanskrit <em>pathashalas</em> and Persian-Arabic <em>madrassas.</em> While sporadic attempts had been made by a few missionaries here and there and a few individual English officers to teach English to Indians, it was a remarkable exhibition of the Zeitgeist that the demand for the learning of English came from an Indian fully a decade before Macaulay came on the scene. The first great Indian of the British regime, and in many ways the greatest of them all, was Raja Ram Mohan Roy.﻿ His letter of the 11th December 1823, addressed to Lord Amherst, the then Governor-General of India, is of great historic importance. In 1813 a sum of one lakh of rupees per year had been sanctioned for the education of Indians, and this sum was spent in founding Sanskrit Colleges for the Hindus and <em>madrassas</em> for the Muslims in the different zillas. It was this policy which provoked Ram Mohan Roy's brilliant rejoinder, and I cannot resist the temptation to quote from it, for some of the considerations he advanced with a prophetic vision in 1823 continue to be pertinent in the year of grace 1951 as well:</p>
		<p>"When this Seminary of learning was proposed, we understood that the Government in England had ordered a considerable sum of money to be annually devoted to the instruction of its Indian Subjects. We were filled with sanguine hopes that this sum would be laid out in employing European gentlemen of talents and education to instruct the natives of India in Mathematics, natural Philosophy, Chemistry, Anatomy and other useful Sciences, which the Nations of Europe have carried to a degree of perfection that has raised them above the inhabitants of other parts of the world.</p>
		<p>"While we looked forward with pleasing hope to the dawn of knowledge thus promised to the rising generation, our hearts were filled with mingled feelings of delight and gratitude; we already offered up thanks to Providence for inspiring the most generous and enlightened of the Nations of the West with the glorious ambitions of planting in Asia the Arts and Sciences of modern Europe.</p>
		<p>"We now find that the Government are establishing a Sangscrit School under Hindu Pundits to impart such knowledge as is already current in India. This Seminary (similar in character to those which existed﻿ in Europe before the time of Lord Bacon) can only be expected to load the minds of youth with grammatical niceties and metaphysical distinctions of little or no practicable use to the possessors or to society. The pupils will there acquire what was known two thousand years ago, with the addition of vain and empty subtilities since produced by speculative men, such as is already commonly taught in all parts of India.</p>
		<p>"The Sangscrit language, so difficult that almost a life time is necessary for its perfect acquisition, is well-known to have been for ages a lamentable check on the diffusion of knowledge; and the learning concealed under this almost impervious veil' is far from sufficient to reward the labour of acquiring it.</p>
		<p>"In order to enable your Lordship to appreciate the utility of encouraging such imaginary learning as above characterized, I beg your Lordship will be pleased to compare the state of sciences and literature in Europe before the time of Lord Bacon, with the progress of knowledge made since he wrote.</p>
		<p>"If it had been intended to keep the British nation in ignorance of real knowledge, the Baconian philosophy would not have been allowed to displace the system of the schoolmen, which was the best calculated to perpetuate ignorance. In the same manner the Sangscrit system of education would be the best calculated to keep this country in darkness, if such had been the policy of the British Legislature. But as the improvement of the native population is the object of the Government, it will consequently have to promote a more liberal and englightened system of instruction, embracing Mathematics, Natural Philosophy, Chemistry and Anatomy, with other useful sciences which may be accomplished with the sum proposed by employing a few gentlemen of talents and learning educated in Europe, and pro﻿ viding a college furnished with the necessary books, instruments and other apparatus.</p>
		<p>"In representing this subject to your Lordship I conceive myself discharging a solemn duty to my countrymen......"</p>
		<p>Reading this passage is like enjoying the fresh mountain breeze undefiled by the narrow prejudices and twisted chicanery of the market place. No wonder if in this intrepid Indian patriot and Sanskrit scholar Macaulay found, his chief inspiration for going ahead with his policy of making English the chief vehicle of educating Indians. The famous minute of Lord Macaulay in 1835 may have contained expressions, unduly depreciative of the ancient languages of India, as when he had the temerity to write that "a single shelf of a good European library was worth the whole native literature of India and Arabia." Such an aberration of thought and language could be excused in a man who knew neither Sanskrit nor Arabic and who as a man of letters had the fatal gift of rhetorical exaggeration. But the fact remains that he meant well by the country he was called upon to serve and he did succeed in delivering the goods, for he has eminently succeeded in achieving one of the two aims he set before himself; and for the failure of the other, in so far as it has been a failure, we have to share in the blame much more than Macaulay or his countrymen. He was conscious of the immensity of the problem of educating in English the teeming millions of India. There was an exquisite balance in the way in which he put the problem: "I feel...that it is impossible for us, with limited means, to attempt to educate the body of the people. We must at present do our best to form a class who may be interpreters between us and the millions whom we govern-a class of persons Indian in blood and color, but﻿ English in tastes, in opinions, in morals and in intellect. To that.class we may leave it to refine the vernacular dialects of the country, to enrich those dialects with terms of science borrowed from the Western nomenclature, and to render them by degrees fit vehicles for conveying knowledge to the great mass of the population."</p>
		<p>I am not unaware that there are Indians who look upon the dominance of the English language in India as an unmixed evil, but then they are the people who find their home in the India of two to three thousand years ago, who do not believe that there is anything to add to the mass of knowledge that has come down to us from the pre-Islamic and even perhaps the preChristian eras. The word <em>progress</em> does not exist in their dictionaries and they still think it is more spiritual to walk or occasionally use a bullock cart rather than move about in trains and cars or be guilty of a sacrilege by invading the regions of Indra in an aeroplane. But I wonder how far they can be said to represent the soul of India. On the other hand, it would be more truthful to admit that the free India of to-day is the realization of Macaulay's dream, and through India the whole of Asia has witnessed a renaissance, political and cultural, which will make history during the next hundred years and after.</p>
		<p>The question that now confronts us to-day is this: whether assuming that English has played a great role in unifying India into one unit as had never happened before in her long history, and recognizing that it has played a great part in introducing us to the treasures of European literature and science, the time has not come to displace it by an Indian language which would adequately take the place of English immediately, or at least in the near future. I think I can claim to speak﻿ on behalf of the vast majority of teachers in our Universities, when I say that no Indian language can immediately replace English. In fact, the purpose I had in quoting Raja Ram Mohan Roy at some length was just to show that, if neither Sanskrit nor Persian-Arabic was a fit vehicle for modern education in his time, there was no vernacular fit either, and the chances of any Indian language being accepted all over India were nil. To-day after a century of English education we have reaped the full benefits of it politically, administratively and culturally. If we are not ready with an Indian language to replace English immediately, it is our fault. We have failed to pass on the knowledge we gained to our vernaculars to the extent that Macaulay visualized: anyway, admitting our shortcoming, nay even our guilt, if you would prefer to say so, the question is how to switch off English.</p>
		<p>The experience of Osmania University has some lessons to teach us. Thirty years ago when it aspired to teach every subject in the University through Urdu, it undertook a bold experiment. English, however, was a compulsory study. When some of us as members of the Inter-University Board visited the University in 1933, we made it a point to sit in the classes and watch this interesting experiment. The teachers taught fluently and we had no reason to doubt that the students followed them more easily than they would have done in English. But we were frankly told that for every one book read in Urdu ten had to be read in English, not only by the teachers, but also by the students. When we visited the University Library we did not feel that we were in an Urdu library, for most of the shelves were stacked with English book. Be it said to the credit of the Hyderabad Government that they did not grudge money for getting text-books prepared in Urdu and in﻿ having the best European books translated into Urdu. Crores have been spent on this, but the ratio of books to be read in Urdu and in English remains the same. The work of translation has been not merely costly, it has also been slow and the unfortunate tragedy or comedy has been that the latest translation by the time it sees the light of day becomes appreciably out of date, for the scientists of the West have not been so considerate as to slow down their pace of research to suit the convenience of over-worked translators. And the irony of ironies is that the Osmania University had the mortification to find its degrees not recognized by the sister universities in India, and now in the changed political conditions of to-day Urdu has become a "foreign" language. If I have been correctly informed Osmania University has changed its medium of instruction to English, and the benefit of crores spent on translations may be reaped by Pakistan.</p>
		<p>I am not blind to the suspicion that the teachers of to-day have been brought up on English and have become so habituated to it that they are loath to switch on to any other medium, and that, therefore, it has become a question of vested interest. Assuming this is true, the real difficulty is that the main tools of teachers are books and until books are ready in the new medium it would be disastrous to our standards to let go all the advantages we have so far reaped from English. Just a few weeks ago, I was horrified to read in the Times of India that the Government of Bombay had decided to prescribe text-books in Kannada for primary schools for only one year was there are still not enough really good Kannada books for the purpose." If this is the state of affairs at the primary level, it is a far cry indeed to university education, though I read in the latest Report of Mysore University that a committee has﻿ been appointed to consider the question of introducing Kannada as the medium of instruction in the Intermediate classes.</p>
		<p>So far as I can visualize, the present position is that however much we may wish to dislodged English from its pedestal, it is not practical politics to think of doing so till we have at least the minimum number of books ready in the new medium. In the meantime, it would not be wise to reduce the facilities that exist in our schools for the teaching of English. The Government of Bombay is anxious that the Universities in the State of Bombay should switch on to Hindi from 1955, for by that year the SSLC students will have learned more Hindi than English. The reform would have been easier and wiser if the Bombay Government in their anxiety to encourage Hindi had not reduced the standard of English, for in 1955 the situation may arise that neither the teachers nor the students would be equipped well enough to teach and learn through Hindi, even though the requisite number of books will be made available in Hindi in 1955, which are non-existent at the present moment. At the same time, the standard of English which is already deplorable, will have gone down to such an extent that no one teaching in English will find himself understood. It is a bleak outlook which would lead to a regular chaos of our standards.</p>
		<p>Whatever our antipathy to the old British Government, it is the height of folly to carry over this antipathy to the English language which has brought India to the leadership of Asia and a very respectable place in the whole world. Whatever may be the medium of instruction, it will not do to give up English as a compulsory subject in our schools and colleges, for it will be for years the major instrument through which﻿ we shall keep up our contacts with the world outside, and our scientists can hope to learn and to add to the stock of scientific knowledge.</p>
		<p>I have no doubt that given time and a modicum of books we can change our medium of instruction, we who have mastered English, so foreign to our own languages. We have even produced poets, novelists and essayists in English, who cannot but be noticed in any history of English Literature. South India has played no mean part in this mastery of English and the South Indian intellect need not be nervous about the possibility of its mastering Hindi as well.</p>
		<p>Assuming that sooner or later we are going to switch on to an Indian language as the medium of instruction, unfortunately there is a wide divergence of opinion between the rival schools of Hindi and the regional languages. I am all for Hindi at the University stage, though I see very powerful forces arrayed against it. That Hindi has been accepted by our Constitution as the official language of India is in itself a very strong argument for accepting Hindi as the natural heir to English in Indian Universities. Through English we have built up our numerous academic congresses and conferences. They have become possible only because we have been thinking and writing in a common medium and we can keep them alive only through a common medium and that can only be Hindi. Nature has made India one within the framework of the mighty Himalayas and the wide seas on three sides. It is we Indians that divided her in the past, thanks to our fissiparous caste system, our religious bigotries, our provincial patriotisms, fostered by our linguistic exclusiveness. Thanks to two hundred years of British rule, we have now become heirs to a united India and it is our sacred duty to see that we do nothing﻿ to fritter away our precious inheritance. We simply cannot afford to slide back into conditions which made the 18th century the darkest period in our history. Whatever may have been the weaknesses of our universities they have at least helped to build up a united India. If parochial patriotism wins and our universities go in for the regional languages, let us visualize the effects of it. One university has already started issuing all its letters in its regional language Mysore University, to take an example, will be unable to read them and so will file them, even if they are important and demand an immediate reply; or Mysore University will have to maintain as many translators as there are linguistic universities in India. It will be a matter of prestige for Mysore Univesity to issue all its letter in Kannada, and force the other universities to employ Kannadiga translators. It may go some way to solve the problem of unemployment but it will create more unemployment in the country as a whole. A Radhakrishnan or a Raman as a professor in Calcutta will only be a memory of the past. Spea-king of the intellectual liberality of Athens, Cardinal Newman wrote: "There was no narrow jealousy directed against a Professor because he was not an Athenian; genius and talent were the qualifications; and to bring them to Athens was to do homage to it as a University. There was a brotherhood and a citizenship of mind". May this continue to be said of our Universities in the future!</p>
		<p>In this connection, I have to make a painful admission that the University Education Commission under the distinguished chairmanship of my old colleague and friend, Professor Radhakrishnan, has woefully failed to give a correct and a bold lead to the country on this burning question of the day. In their halting﻿ recommendations, they ultimately bless the regional languages, forgetting the role that the Universities played in the past and can hope to play in the future in making Indians realize their fundamental unity and kinship.</p>
		<p>I have noted that the agitation for the regional languages usually comes most vociferously from the newspapers in the languages concerned and from the writers in these languages. It is undoubtedly a case of vested interest. They are nervous about their reading public. I should like to allay their fears in this direction. With the inevitable development of primary education and secondary education which will be in the regional languages, there will be millions of readers if they can produce something really first-rate, and so if a few thousands in the University read in Hindi it should not matter much, and even if it does, it is a sacrifice none too great to lay at the feet of our country. It is often forgotten how the dominance of English has not affected the growth of literature in all our Indian languages. New styles, new metrs, new ideas have all been the gift of European literature: English or French, German or Russian. It has been said of a well-known Kannada writer that in order to understand his Kannada one must know English first. Curiously enough, an identically similar remark has been made of a Gujarati novelist, who has made considerable noise in the world of Gujarati literature. It only means that our languages will be the richer for their contacts with the European languages and a new Hindi can be forged with the genius of the South and the East and the West of India all co-operating to build up an Indian language worthy of being ranked among the best in the world.</p>
		<p>I am afraid I have taken more time to speak on this topic than I meant to do, but I do not feel like﻿ apologizing, for after all this is the question on the solution of which the future of Indian universities depends. If I have succeeded in bringing out the complexity of the problem, I shall be more than content. Let us not confound our educational problems by bringing in pseudo-patriotic considerations. We are not less the Indians for having adopted a constitution which is a mosaic of several western constitutions. We shall not be any the less good patriotic Indians for continuing our study of English and making full use of its wealth even if it comes to adopting thousands of English words in our languages instead of frittering away our time and energy in coining words of pure Sanskrit or Dravidian origin. What would the English ;language itself be if it had not borrowed wholesale through long centuries words from every language on earth, including our own Indian languages? In my days in Mysore there used to be a band of Kannada fanatics who were out to eliminate every word of Sanskrit origin. I hope the fad has died out with time, for I see no future for a language, when its development is hindered by petty jealousies and a narrow chauvinistic outlook. They have yet to learn the significance of Kipling's pregnant verse: "And what should they of England know who only England know?"</p>
		<p class="text-center"><strong>The Place of Science</strong></p>
		<p>I shall now pass on to another question which affects the quality of our university education. There was a time when just a few students cared to go in for science and our education was criticized as being too literary. To-day we find an inordinate rush for science classes and it is quite legitimate to ask whether all the money spent on science is wisely spent. There﻿ are students who have a real flair for science and it would be a sin to keep them out. But the vast majorities that crowd our science laboratories either fail to get their degree or get it and become clerks after some months of waiting. Science is a jealous mistress and a very exacting one too. It requires a special aptitude and the ordinary third class students are none the better for having studied science. The probvlem is of weeding out the average so that more concentrated attention could be given to those who can really turn out good work. I have always been against any premature specialization at the school stage. We need engineers and doctors and science teachers and it would be difficult and even perhaps unjust to keep out those who aspire to these careers. But is it worth while allowing all the third class intermediates to flock to and literally clog our B.Sc. classes ? It would be far better for the rank and file to go in for the humanistic courses. For one thing they are cheaper in money and they have a cultural value which cannot be overemphasized. There is bound to be a hue and cry against any such restrictions as I am suggesting, but if money is to be well spent on science, a certain amount of weeding out is quite essential and in the interests of the students themselves. Ours is not a rich country and we have to see that every rupee spent is spent well and fruitfully and does not run down the sinks of our laboratories to turn out science graduates who will cease to be scientists the moment they get their degree.</p>
		<p class="text-center"><strong>Culture as the Aim of University Education</strong></p>
		<p>The suggestion I have just ventured to make has a direct bearing on the culture of our students. I know that a really good science student does not permit﻿ himself to be a mere scientist and nothing more. There is the fine humanism which peeps out of the lectures of Sir C.V. Raman and we have the fine example of a professor of Physics like my friend Professor Venkatesachar spending the evening of his life in holding philosophy classes for the benefit of a few devoted men. But an average science student reminds one of Stephen Leacock's numismatist who knew nothing beyond his subject and to any question bearing on life at large he could just reply: "I am numismatics". I do not suggest that even our Arts students have the culture which a university education at its best must necessarily imply. The members of our Public Service Commissions must be having a hard life, if, as one of them recently reported to me, a graduate could say that <em>The Light of Asia</em> was written by Pandit Nehru and <em>The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire</em> was fathered on no less a person than Rajendra Babu.</p>
		<p>We who have been responsible for this shameful state of affairs must subject ourselves to a severe heart searching whether our methods of teaching do not need a radical reorientation and whether some method should not be devised whereby our students can be made to read more than their text-books and in subjects other than their own. It was during the Vice-Chancelorship of the late Rajasabhabhushana K. Chandy that the system of giving humanistic extension lectures in Bangalore and scientific lectures in Mysore began. I hope this system is still in vogue on an even larger scale. One of the misfortunes of our Universities is the over-crowded classes which prevent the students from meeting their teachers at close quarters. "An academical system with the personal influence of teachers upon pupils is an Arctic winter; it will create an ice-bound, petrified, cast-iron University, and nothing else". So﻿ wrote Cardinal Newman and we who have studied in Western universities know what that sentence means. The problem that confronts us is not how to add to the number of our students but how to reduce it to a manageable size. We in our country are apt to give an exaggerated importance to university degrees. We forget that two of the greatest Indians of this generation Gandhiji and Tagore-had no university education. It is a mistaken idea that the right to university education is a fundamental birth-right. It undoubtedly supplies a certain need of our body politic: it supplies leaders of thought, and professional men. But any society needs only a limited number of leaders and professional men, and any glut in this direction will inevitably tend to lower the professional standards. In my generation there were comparatively few openings. To-day there are endless openings which do not at all require the hall mark of a university degree. We have now to learn the worth of a university degree in its proper perspective. In free India the opening of polytechnics and craft schools should go far to relieve the pressure on the universities so that universities can concentrate on the required number of scholars and professional men. Our Constitution gives no special advantages to graduates and it was a wise recommendation of the Radhakrishnan Commission that a university degree need not be a passport to Government service. In a balanced society, a graduate can only be looked upon as a useful citizen with a particular aptitude by virtue of which he can best serve his society. There is no reason for our graduates to develop any superiority complex in a democratic society which would be justified in measuring the worth of its citizens, whether graduates or not, by the quality of their work and the character of their life.﻿</p>
		<p class="text-center"><strong>Examinations</strong></p>
		<p>If the cultural side of our graduates is weak, there is no doubt that our examination system is mainly responsible for it. The Radhakrishnan Report correctly diagnoses the evil when it speaks of "the obvious deficiencies and harmful consequences of this most pervasive evil in Indian education." Both the teachers and the students are apt to look upon examinations as the be-all and the end-all of education, whereas examinations can only be taken as a rough test of what a student has learned and how he can express himself. The evil is heightened when our students have no real interest in their subjects and take pride in opening their books just a few months before the examination begins. Such hectic study does not make for knowledge, still less for culture. In an ideal system of education examinations should find no place, but in this imperfect world it is impossible to do away with them. All that we can hope to do is to see how far and in what ways we can minimize their lottery-like character.</p>
		<p>The first thing to do is to ensure continuous study on the part of our students. This can be done by regular library work, periodical tests and even terminal examinations and unless a student shows satisfactory progress in his studies he should not be permitted to appear at a university examination. On the other hand if he is permitted to appear he should not be entirely at the mercy of the final examination, but his class records should count towards determining his university examination result, and all grace marks should automatically cease.</p>
		<p>The Radhakrishnan Report suggests the introduction of the so-called objective tests in our examinations which require just a 'yes' or 'no' from the candidates.﻿ I am not sure if they will not add to the lottery nature of our examinations, but the experiment may be tried after a careful examination of these tests. Perhaps the question papers of the University of Chicago offer a good guidance. At the same time, the essay type of questions cannot be completely eliminated, for life does not consist in saying 'yes' or 'no', but in expressing ourselves in full complete sentences.</p>
		<p>Now that our contacts with American universities have increased, attempts are being made to go in for the credits system which is in vogue in several American universities, and certainly not in all of them. It would be dangerous to go in blindly for the system, for in several respects it does not suit our conditions. For one thing it makes the juniormost teachers decide whether a credit should be given to a student for his work, and these credits will bring the candidate his degree with or without the rigorous test of a final examination. Professors in America tend to avoid this monotonous and laborious task of marking papers and the task mostly falls to the lot of juniors. Such a system will not work in our country with our caste and provincial prejudices; and our degrees may come to be worth less than the price of the parchment on which they are given. They will not have objective value enough to satisfy the normal standards of examinations. Anyhow, purely as an administrative measure, there is no question of greater importance than the method of conducting examinations and the Government of India may well accept the recommendation of the Radhakrishnan Report about instituting some machinery whereby examination technique can be studied as scientifically as possible and some method evolved which would suit our conditions.﻿</p>
		<p class="text-center"><strong>The Place of a University in Free India</strong></p>
		<p>We are all painfully aware of the appalling illiteracy that prevails in our country, which is likely to make a farce of our democracy. We can appreciate the enthusiasm of many of our ministers, especially Education Ministers, to do what they can to spread primary education. It is a holy venture, but it becomes unholy when Peter is robbed to pay Paul and the poor Peter turns out to be the Universities. Free India has seen the birth of a new type of patriot whose proud boast is that he does not believe in university education. Perhaps he counts on the plethora of graduates in our midst to-day. But a day will come when this generation of graduates will pass away and we shall look in vain among the products of our primary schools to lead us in the fields of politics and the professions. But I am confident such a day will never come, for there are many ministers all over India, who will not let the universities starve, for they themselves are the products of their universities and they will not be false to their own Alma Maters. But they have a right to expect that the universities will be wise in their expenditure and give back to the tax-payer full value for the money spent on the universities.</p>
		<p class="text-center"><strong>Conclusion</strong></p>
		<p>And now, Graduates of the Year, I come to the closing part of my Address, which is specifically addressed to you. Advice is always unwelcome especially to young men and women of your age. But I can do better than give you words of advice. I can share my experiences with you and I shall leave it to you to accept or to discard just as it pleases you. The day of our﻿ graduation is a great day in our life. I felt proud of my degree, but it did not take me long to find out how little I knew, that with my graduation I did not see the end of examinations, but the beginning of the toughest examination: the examination of life itself. During my life, a good few bouquets have come my way, but I also found that life was not a bed of roses. Human nature is complex and enemies and backbiters are as common as good friends. Life has also taught me that rewards do not always come easily, that we have to work hard to get them, if we get them at all. I have not cared to seek cheap popularity by trying to be all things to all men. I have found it impossible to bear knaves, though I could be generous to fools. Justice and injustice are relative terms, and the person who had more to do with laying the foundations of education in Mysore than any one else, the late Munir-ul-Talim Dr. H.J. Bhabha, allowed himself to say to a disgruntled subordinate, "A government servant has no right to expect justice". Many of you may become government servants and it would be wise to remember this advice, for it would make you take things as they come, good and bad. In my darkest moments, and I have had my share of them, I have received great courage from the lines of James Thomson:</p>
		<p class="myquote">"It is easy enough to be pleasant<br /> When life flows on like a song,<br /> But the man worth-while is the man who can smile<br /> When everything goes dead wrong.<br /> For the test of the heart is trouble,<br /> And it always comes with the years,<br /> And the smile that is worth the praises of earth,</p>
		<p>Is the smile that can shine through tears." My young friends, I shall not try to mislead you by saying that you will not meet disappointments at all. In fact I wish you would meet at least, a few, for that would humanise you and make you appreciative of the difficulties of others. The completely successful man is apt to become proud and hard-hearted. It is good that this species of man is very rare. In fact I have found that the most successful men, whom people envy, have had some grouse with life, and the good in them is due more to the thwacks of life than to its bouquets.</p>
		<p>You are now on the threshold of a new life. My best wishes go to you. May you make something precious out of it ! Perhaps the lines of the great Persian poet Sheik Sadi will inspire you to turn your sorrows into opportunities of service and love. The idea is simple, but arresting: "When you were born, you cried and others laughed; when you die, see that you laugh and others cry."</p>
		<p>I have spoken about culture previously. Your degree is not worth the price of the paper it is written on, if it has not kindled in you a passion for the classics, a zest for scientific achievement, or a desire to help your fellowmen, or a sense of disciplined character. Believe me, if you are not disciplined yourselves, you will not be able to exact discipline from others. It may not be given to all of you to achieve high positions in life, but in the humblest tasks that may fall to your lot you will do them honestly, efficiently and with the keenness of an artist.</p>
		<p>I have recently found myself greatly interested in the Rotary movement and I came across a poem called "Sharing" by Maude Peston. It has made a great appeal to me, for it seems to help us make our life a joy and a success. I have shared the poem with many Rotary clubs in my District, and it has been received with so much zest that I shall not deny myself the pleasure﻿ of sharing it with you in the hope that this pleasure  of sharing it with you in the hope that this pleasure will be yours as much as mine.</p> 
		<p class="myquote">"There isn't much that I can do, but I can share<br /> my bread with you, and I can share my joy<br /> with you, and sometimes share a sorrow too, ......<br /> as on our way we go.</p>
		<p class="myquote">"There isn't much that I can do, but I can sit an <br />hour with you, and I can share a joke with<br /> you, and sometimes share reverses too,...<br />as on our way we go. </p>
		<p class="myquote">"There isn't much that I can do, but I can share<br /> my flowers with you, and I can share my<br /> books with you, and sometimes share your<br />burdens too,...... as on our way we go. </p>
		<p class="myquote">"There isn't much that I can do, but I can share<br />my songs with you, and I can share my mirth<br /> with you, and sometimes come and laugh<br />with you,...... as on our way we go.</p> 
		<p class="myquote">"There isn't much that I can do, but I can share<br />my hopes with you, and I can share my fears<br /> with you, and sometimes shed my tears with<br />you,...... as on our way we go.</p>
		<p class="myquote">"There isn't much that I can do, but I can share<br /> my friends with you, and I can share my life <br />with you, and off-times share a prayer with<br /> you,...... as on our way we go."</p>
		<p>My young friends, you have yet a long way to go, but I am sure your path will be rendered easier and pleasantry by the spirit of Sharing, for there is no doubt that sorrows shared will be lightened and joys shared will be heightened. Do not be afraid to do the right and you will win the confidence and the love of your mates. Life is hard but can be made bearable and even beautiful with all the resources of culture and goodwill that you as graduates can command.﻿﻿</p>
	</section>
	<section class="level1 numbered" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" id="id-002">
		<h1 class="level1-title" epub:type="title">Address delivered at the Convocation of  the University of Mysore on Tuesday, 2nd December 1952, by Sir Ivor Jennings. Vice-Chancellor of the University of Ceylon.</h1>
		<p><strong>YOUR HIGHNESS, MR. VICE-CHANCELLOR AND MEMBERS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MYSORE,</strong></p>
		<p>I come to you today as an ambassador in a double sense. First, I speak for the University of Ceylon, a university which is beginning to feel the weight of its ten years, for there are now twelve younger universities in India and two in Pakistan. The relations between Ceylon and Mysore have been close for many centuries, and it is perhaps a pity that this should be the first time that direct personal relations should have been established between the two universities. We esteem it a privilege to join with the Indian universities in the Inter-University Board of India, for we have a great deal to learn from their experience. We feel, too, that we have something to contribute, for we have inherited through Britain's colonial system a rather different set of traditions from those which Britain established in India in 1857. We have, for instance, inherited the tradition of university autonomy, which not all the Indian universities possess, and I am sure you would find it interesting to study on the spot the modus veinedi which we have achieved through the generosity of the Government of Ceylon during the past ten years. I am sure, too, that you would find interesting the residential system which has just been established in Perdeniya. It derives not, as so many think, from the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge, but from the Saddler Report on the University of Calcutta, which many of us regard as one of the most useful reports﻿ on university education ever published.</p>
		<p>Primarily, though, I come to you as ambassador from the Republic of Learning; and it is in that capacity, no doubt, that I have to address the graduates of the University of Mysore. Perhaps you will allow me first of all to give you a short lecture on the constitutional law of universities. Among you are Bachelors, Masters and Doctors. Those are the various degrees of learning, the various steps through which we graduate. The Bachelors are the apprentices to learning, people who have learned a little but not much, people who can by long study and steady application hope one day to be learned. The Masters are the <em>magistri,</em> the teachers, those who are not really learned but know enough to be licensed to teach ignorant people like undergraduates who, as their name implies, have not yet been admitted to the first degree of learning. The only learned people are the doctores, those who have attained the highest degree of learning. This does not mean that they have learned all there is to know; it means only that they have learned enough to be given the title doctor or learned.</p>
		<p>There is a lesson implicit in this constitutional law. The first degree is the first step, and there are two more steps ahead. Not everybody will take those steps, but we should be failing in our duty if we did not produce in every generation a few graduates who continued the pursuit of knowledge. Some will tell you that the world has not progressed since Alexander the Great came to India. This is surely false. In respect of knowledge there have been great advances, advances so great that none of us can now follow Frances Bacon's example and take all knowledge for our province. In respect of wisdom the case is not so clear: but then I am not sure that I know exactly what wisdom means.﻿ If it be wisdom to write excellent treatises on government and yet not to be able to govern, the Greeks certainly had wisdom. If the practical art of government be an indication of wisdom, the British are wiser than the Greeks ever were, though they have never produced the equivalent of a Plato or an Aristotle. We cannot answer questions such as these without entering into philosophical discussions and even into political and religious controversies, but I would submit to you that the progress of knowledge in the last century has been rapid and that that progress has generally speaking enured to the benefit of mankind.</p>
		<p>The advancement of knowledge is one of the major functions of the University. It is to be feared, though, that that term 'University' tends to have a somewhat limited meaning. It is often thought to consist of the professors and lecturers, who are supposed to 'do research'. Here perhaps the constitutional lawyer can help again. The legal formulation varies, but generally speaking the University consists of the Chancellor and his deputies, the Professors, the Doctors, the Masters, the Bachelors and the students. What is a Convocation but a calling together of all the members of the university? Certain members are, so to speak, to be stepped up, to be raised to a higher degree. The students are made Bachelors, the Bachelors are made Masters, and the Masters are promoted to Doctors. The responsibility for the advancement of knowledge is placed upon the whole university, upon the graduates as well as upon the professors.</p>
		<p>This is, I think, an important point. You have been educated, in some degree at least, at the public expense. In my own university the graduates are educated entirely at the public expense, because we charge no fees: but no university known to me is able to operate﻿ on fees alone. The community does not finance your education in order that you may get good jobs and high salaries. It expects you to use the knowledge which you acquire for the common weal: and one way to do that is to help in the advancement of knowledge. That does not necessarily mean that you should dig out a lot of facts, collect them together, and earn a Ph.D. knowledge is advanced not merely by 'research' in that narrow sense but also by the reinterpretation of knowledge, by thinking about it and trying to ascertain what it means. Moreover, wisdom, if not knowledge, is advanced by works of imagination: novels, drama, poetry, art and music. The change to the national languages, which is taking place in so many countries in Asia, places an added responsibility upon you; for there is very great need for works of imagination in those languages. Too much has been said about text-books and too little about reading matter. One good poet would be more useful than all the committees on technical terms.</p>
		<p>The other day I read in a Ceylon newspaper the cynicism that nobody wrote except for money. The first Lord Birkenhead said something of the same sort-that anybody who wrote except for money was a fool. It would be unnecessary to take note of such stupid remarks as these were it not that young men and women often assume that cynicism and wisdom are equivalent terms. Before the invention of printing hardly anybody could have written for money, and during that long period most of the world's great books, including all its great religious books, were written. Even now it would be almost true to say that the value of a book varied in inverse proportion to its sales. We have taught millions to read but only a few thousand to read wisely. Those who turn out leading articles in the two hours before midnight, no doubt, perform a﻿ useful function, but those who write for the wise or the learned do their duty to mankind. Nor must it be thought that writing is a burdensome duty. The exercise of skill is always a pleasure and a privilege, whether by an artist, a craftsman or an author. It is necessary to emphasize these factors, for politicians take decisions about language without realizing that literature is created not by politicians and administrators, but by poets and scholars, novelists and dramatists. The State is not omnipotent. It cannot write a poem or paint a picture; and when it commissions a poem it cannot compel anybody to read it, except those guinea-pigs of modern educational science, the students in the schools and universities.</p>
		<p>One point which I must make to you, as ambassador from the Republic of Learning, is the unity of knowledge. We university teachers are apt to lead our students astray by dividing knowledge into 'subjects'. We allot a subject to Departments and Departments to Faculties. We even make the mistake of inventing different degrees and giving you hoods of different colours. One student graduates in Law, another in Science and a third in Medicine. In India you even have specialist colleges, a Law College, an Engineering College and so on. These divisions may be administratively convenient, but they are misleading. In 1942 the University of Ceylon incorporated two institutions, one of which was a medical college. It had had a long and creditable history. Its students very properly thought highly of its traditions. Though incorporated in the University they quite naturally thought themselves to be distinct. To help in the establishment of a broad university tradition I decided to give them a lecture on a subject within their curriculum. I chose a subject on which I had written a book, Public Health. I do not﻿ know if the lesson went home, but it could easily have been developed. A lawyer can lecture on Public Health, a political scientist can lecture on Public Health, an economist can lecture on Public Health; a sociologist, an engineer, an agricultural expert, a veterinary surgeon, a historian, and many others could do the same. In fact, I am quite certain that every professor in the University could give a lecture on some subject within the medical curriculum. These barriers which we erect are artificial, capable of being swept aside like a curtain. Many of you will now be called upon to solve practical problems and you will find that no such problem falls nicely within the curriculum of your Faculty. You may not find yourself writing books in fields of knowledge not mentioned in your degree certificates, as I have done; but at least you will discover that knowledge cannot be nicely classified into genera and species like flora and fauna.</p>
		<p>There is one danger which we in Asia have particularly to guard against. Most of the recent advances in knowledge have been made in Europe. If you ask why, you will not obtain any very certain answer. It has something to do with the environment caused by the collapse of the Roman Empire and the spread among the barbarians of Greek, Roman, Christian and Arab ideas. If you trace the history of these ideas you will find that they came not from Europe but from Asia. Even so, modern knowledge is essentially a European product, and in consequence European writers have tended to assume that civilization is essentially European. As a matter of history we know that that is not true, that India and China developed a high degree of civilization while Europe was occupied by forests, wild animals, and primitive tribes. The ancient civilization of India has survived through the centuries and is as﻿ much part of knowledge as modern science.</p>
		<p>This fact has been seized upon by the modern nationalist movement and has led to an unfortunate tendency to divide knowledge into eastern and western. We can, of course, separate out the history of Europe and the history of Asia, the geography of Europe and the geography of Asia. We can even create a subject called Indian philosophy if we mean the Indian contribution to philosophy or the series of philosophical principles based upon assumptions common in India. There can even be Indian Medicine or Indian Engineering if we merely mean that there is a body of empirical knowledge whose scientific foundations have not been fully investigated. Beyond that we cannot go, for we have no evidence from which we can conclude that the properties of matter are different in Europe and in Asia. The Colombo Municipal Council recently produced, in all seriousness, the <em>reductio ad absurdum.</em> It decided to set up clinics for what it erroneously called 'Indigenous Medicine'. Since there are three systems, it decided that one should be employed where the Sinhalese were in the majority, the second where the Tamilians were in the majority, and the third where the Muslims were in the majority.</p>
		<p>The example shows that nationalism may easily turn to sectionalism. It is in fact a commodity to be handled carefully. Europe has had too much of it in the last century and Asia not enough. We who belong to the Republic of Learning recognize national characteristics, national languages and even nationalism itself, but there is no such thing as national learning. Knowledge is universal and wisdom is either wisdom or non-existent. In joining the Republic of Learning you do not lose your responsibilities to the Republic of India. but you acquire wider responsibilities also.</p>
		<p>Let me not be misunderstood. Every student ought to learn in his own environment, and therefore learn about his environment. Education in Ceylon, and perhaps in India also, suffered from the fact that it was transferred bodily from England. Ceylonese students knew a great deal about the feudal system in Europe but nothing about the feudal system in Asia: the spread of Christianity was an important subject, while the spread of Hinduism, Buddhism and Islam was not; and so on. As one proceeds from primary education to university education, however, one proceeds from the particular to the general, from the local to the universal. The very word 'University' is significant. It suggests that our scope is universal. We graduates may specialize in particular fields of knowledge; we have to apply our knowledge to local conditions and must therefore understand them; but we have to carry the burden of universal knowledge.</p>
		<p>One other characteristic of the Republic of Learning must be mentioned. Though collectively we graduates have acquired a great deal of knowledge, we must all be aware how little we know, not only individually but in the mass. What we know is only a small segment of what might be known. On most fundamental issues we can do no more than formulate tentative hypotheses. Two consequences follow. In the first place, modesty is imposed upon us by the extent of our ignorance. This is especially true of young graduates, for the one thing which they ought to have learned is how little they know. In no field of study is it possible to learn much in four years of study. In the second place, we know so little that we are compelled to be tolerant. Cromwell's advice to his too enthusiastic followers, 'Bethink ye that ye may be wrong', must apply to all of us. Indeed, we know so little that we must be wrong. Young men and﻿ women have to make up their minds about controversial issues in religion, philosophy and politics. Having done so, they tend to be dogmatic and intolerant of different opinions. When one graduates, I think, one ought to put aside this adolescent attitude. The mere fact that sensible people hold different opinions ought to be enough to make us doubt our own judgements. The lesson should be clearer in Asia than in Europe, because Europe has a single tradition derived from Christianity, Greek thought, and Roman law. There are numerous traditions in Asia. Indeed, the tradition of India is essentially tolerant, and the impact of western experience ought to make the tradition even more tolerant.</p>
		<p>A writer on the Canadian Constitution once remarked that the function of a Governor-General was to talk Governor-Generalities. Generalities are also the stock-in-trade of those who deliver Conovocation addresses. I hope you will forgive what is in nearly every university an annual sermon. We who live in universities have two privileges which recur annually; the first is to welcome the freshmen and the second to congratulate the graduates. I can assure you that it is a privilege, because it makes us feel that we are doing something worth-while. We take in the raw material and we turn out not the finished product, for the process of learning never ends, but a few hundred young men and women who are capable of taking over from our generation the management of the world. Universities undertake that job year after year, decade after decade, and century after century.</p>
		<p>I hope you will allow me to end with another lesson in constitutional law. In graduating you do not leave your university. In fact, in my University of Cambridge we do not even use the term. We simply say that the graduates 'go down'. Quite frequently they﻿ 'come up' again. Now that I have been an exile from England for twelve years, I regard my College and my University as my home. That is good constitutional law. In graduating you do not cease to be members of the University of Mysore. On the contrary, you actually become full members of an institution of which hitherto you have been only student members. You assume responsibility for future generations. Many of you will be able to help either by voluntary service or financially. No university ever has enough money, because the boundaries of knowledge are infinity. Even if you cannot help in either way, you can help by showing your loyalty to the University in other ways.</p>
		<p>My task, now, is to welcome you into the Republic of Learning. I do so with the greatest pleasure. What is more, I wish you individually and personally success in your careers, happiness in your private lives, and generally a pleasant and useful future.</p>
		<p>Your Highness, I must end by thanking you for the privilege of attending this Convocation and addressing the graduates.﻿</p>
	</section>
	<section class="level1 numbered" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" id="id-003">
		<h1 class="level1-title" epub:type="title"> Address delivered at the Mysore University Convocation on 9th October 1954, by Sir S.V. Ramamurthy, M.A., D. Litt.. I.C.S., K.C.I.E.</h1>
		<p>Let me thank His Highness the Chancellor of the Mysore University for 'the honour he has done me in inviting me to address you at this Convocation. It has been the tradition of India to value intellectual activities and achievements. Many of us remember our student days as perhaps the most enjoyable part of our life, particularly when we had the privilege of instruction and guidance in well established universities. When we enter life and take to a profession, the purely intellectual part of our being becomes merged with and often submerged by more material ways of living. In democratic countries like India, mind is given priority over matter unlike in communism where matter is considered more primary than mind.</p>
		<p>Modern Universities have been established in India under British rule. But the institution of universities is an ancient one in India. From the Ashrams of Rishis in Vedic times to the large Buddhist Universities like Nalanda and Taxila, intellectual studies were fostered and pursued as the central stream of progress in India. In these intellectual centres, great systems of knowledge were evolved and consolidated. From the Vedas where the vision of Indian seers penetrating the mystery of the universe was recorded, six great systems of knowledge, each called a darsana, were evolved. These were the Purva mimamsa, Vedanta, Nyaya, Vaiseshika, Sankhya and Yoga. Each embodied a world view based on the experience of scholars gained in that age. They were each ultimately based on the vision of Vedic seers. The work of seers was spiritual. The work of scholars was intellectual. Their work related to the﻿ whole of reality, both unseen and seen by the physical senses. The extent to which the world could be perceived physically was in that age much smaller than it is now with the advancement of science. Hence the six Darsanas of India have emphasized philosophy more than science. But science has now extended the frontiers of the seen world. We now hear many sounds which we did not hear and see many sights which we did not see. Further, we know that there are many sounds in the world which we do not hear and many sights that we do not see. The frontiers of philosophy and science are shifting. Human experience of the physical world is much wider and deeper than a thousand years ago when the vision of Vedas and the reasonings of Vedanta were reinterpreted in the region of philosophy by giants like Sankara, Ramanuja and Madhwa.</p>
		<p>Modern Universities in India have been the channel through which a large mass of new experience has flowed into India. The philosophy of India and the science of Europe are today joining like the Ganges and the Jamna and producing a muddy confusion where they meet. Yet both are made up of the same waters of truth emanating from the one fountainhead of all knowledge. Life in India suffers from the chaotic mixture of philosophy and science. If India is again to recover stability and clarity of vision, faith and action, there is need to find an integration of Indian philosophy and western science.</p>
		<p>There is indeed a need for a new darsana. A world view has to be evolved which embraces the old and new knowledge, the knowledge both of the unseen and the seen. The distinction between the seen and unseen is not absolute but relative. As the competence of human senses rises, the unseen becomes more and more merged with the seen. Towards the evolution of the new﻿ darsana, India is, I believe, in a specially competent and therefore responsible position. Veda and Vedanta have comprehended both the inmost centre and the outermost boundary of reality. Brahman is described to be, Neti neti not this, not this. Atman has been seen to be Brahman. The immanent is seen also to be transcendent. The Vedas also posited these directions of reality - the positive, the negative, and that which is both positive and negative. So long as the human mind continues to be constituted as it is, there is no truth regarding reality which can be outside the centre and boundary of reality and which can be perceived as not included between the three corners of reality-being, non-being and that which is both being and non-being. This is the framework which the Vedas and Vedanta have provided for human knowledge. All further perception of reality must be within this frame work. Intellectual perception in the shape of philosophy has been contained within this frame work. Physical and intellectual perception in the shape of science must also be contained in this frame work. The quality of philosophy and of science is alike. Both seek to see the unseen; both search into the mystery of the universe; both use the instruments of mind and matter to expand the intuitions of spirit. There is no contradiction between philosophy and science. They relate to different jurisdictions and different methods of approach. I venture to suggest to Indian Universities like this of Mysore that a special opportunity is open to them and a special responsibility is cast on them to prize the inherited knowledge of India as well as the acquired knowledge from Europe. What does the intellectual life of most of us graduates of Indian Universities amount to? We imbibe what others produce, we use this knowledge to earn our livelihood. There is little attempt﻿ at creative activity and little attempt to integrate the knowledge which is available to us. On the other hand, the Vedic and Vedantic scholars of India while they deserve all credit and respect for having preserved the old knowledge, have not been able to bring a creative outlook on their inherited knowledge as they have not been able also to acquire the new knowledge of science. Mysore is fortunate in being the seat of the most famous mutt of Sankara at Sringeri as well as the modern university of Mysore. May not the scientists of Mysore and the philosophers of Sringeri clash mind with mind and help towards an integration of philosophy and science? Science is valuable but so is philosophy and the latter has built up our special quality of life. I feel that modern Indian Universities have failed in concentrating on science and neglecting Indian literature, art and philosophy. It is to the credit of the organizers of Sri Venkateswara University that they pay attention to Sanskritic learning, Indian art and philosophy while attending also to the technology of cotton and groundnut. I have a feeling that Indian Universities have been like the man who inherits mango seed but concentrates on growing tomatoes from packets of imported seed. The tomato is an estimable vegetable. It contains many vitamins which sustain life. But the mango is the prince of fruits. It has a high pedigree. It expresses the finer nuances of life. A dinner is a drab affair with tomatoes and without mangoes. May the Indian Universities develop a fuller life in order to help develop an integrated life !</p>
		<p>Each of us at a university pursues a branch of knowledge as a means of intellectual discipline and development. My own study has been of mathematics. I had the privilege of studying it at Cambridge where Newton laid some of the foundations of modern﻿ mathematics. Professors and scholars there continue his tradition. They are the nearest counterpart of the ancient Rishis of India. Both have for their absorbing interest the search into the mysteries of the universe. Both have been engaged in intellectual adventure. Creation or at least the attempt at creation is the essence of that adventure. Mathematics has been the instrument whereby I have found a way of living. But equally, it has given me scope for intellectual adventure. The need for synthesizing what I inherited from India and what I acquired through Cambridge and its possibility have haunted me. I feel that it is possible to frame such a synthesis, through a mathematical presentation of monism in which the four fundamental entities of science-time, space, matter and mind-are reconciled with the one fundamental entity of spirit, in which quality is reconciled with quantity, acceleration with uniform velocity, motion with rest and the relative with the absolute. I have pursued this quest for the absolute for many years. Sometimes I seem to see a glimpse of truth. But again it recedes and opens up a new long vista before me. Once more I take up my staff and pursue the quest. Perhaps the chase has been more pleasurable than the end of the chase may ever be. Young graduates of the Mysore University, I cannot wish you better than that the studies in which you have graduated today may open up opportunities of intellectual adventure. I believe that if you seek them, you will find them.</p>
		<p>The religion that has grown up in India has been an abstract religion expressing itself in philosophy. Today, a new religion is growing in India and I call it concrete religion. You know that Vishnu has two spouses-Lakshmi and Bhudevi. It is however a fact that in our temples today, Bhudevi stands neglected by the﻿ side of her Lord. Not for her are the silks and jewels that are showered by devotees on Lakshmi, the goddess of wealth. A fragment of a garment, perhaps cast off by the priest's wife, is good enough to clothe Bhudevi. Yet Bhudevi is our concrete mother from whom our body and may be, our mind spring. There was a time when the arts of a rich material civilization received as much attention in India as philosophy and religion. But gradually, our attention to material life has grown anaemic. We have even called it maya, illusion and relegated it to an inferior category of reality, forgetting that the absolute reality has no categories. The example of Europe and America with the rich flowering of science has led us once more to value material life even as we have valued intellectual and spiritual life.</p>
		<p>Nature in India is as rich and as prolific as nature, say in the U.S.A., where for the last three decades material life has made rapid advances. Political freedom and material security have both been fostered thereby. In India, we have adopted the mechanism of western democracy and introduced a parliamentary system on the basis of adult suffrage. Citizens of India wield sovereign powers. But such political sovereigns earn on the average ten annas a day. Economically, therefore they have the status of beggars. Sovereignty and beggarliness form an unstable and explosive compound. Hence the need for the rapid economic development of India for which her natural resources so well fit her. There are indeed only four countries in the world which have almost all the gifts of nature that they need and which can live even if the rest of the world were not. These are India, China, the U.S.A. and the U.S.S.R. All these are rich in human resources too and all are now engaged with the help of science in the concrete development of nature and man. The U.S.A. thirty years﻿ ago was nothing like as rich as she now is. But with the development of irrigation and power schemes, agriculture and industry have received a great impetus. U.S.S.R. has similarly in about the same period engaged in planned development of economic and social life. China too has begun to develop in this way. India. thanks mainly to the inspiration of our Prime Minister, has started on the development of water and power schemes both big and small, the encouragement of scientific research in the national laboratories without which such development cannot progress, the increased provision of social amenities such as education and health, the levelling up of social inequalities so that the best could be obtained from all human material including the most lowly, and a fresh impetus to creative arts without which life in India would be like a tree without flowers. All these are modes of concrete religion which India without leaving her central nucleus of spiritual vision is developing so that Bhudevi once more receives the same attention and affection as she did of yore. The activities of the Planning Commission have the contents of concrete religion.</p>
		<p>I have been associated with planning and development in India during recent years. The emphasis is on men even more than on nature. India's resources of rivers and forests, mountains and plains, crops and minerals are all within its purview. Mysore occupies a place in the forefront of this development. Krishnaraja Sagar and Sivasamudram have been among the pioneers in water and power development. In agriculture with the help of the grow more food campaign, Mysore has been making up its deficit of food production. The Tungabhadra is being developed so that areas of deficit rainfall are watered with the rains from the Western Ghats. Mysore has a tradition of modern industrial﻿ development for which her statesmen deserve all credit. More and more, Mysore is harnessing electric power for industries, both big and small. The power of Jog Falls is being fully utilized in agriculture and industry and for social amenities. Mysore has now prepared a bigger scheme, the Honnemaradu scheme yielding over 3,00,000 kilowatts of power. If this be executed, Mysore will have half a million kilowatts of power for some ten million population. The provision of electric power per person in Mysore will then be comparable to that of Japan with 4 million kilowatts of power for some eighty million population. Electric power multiplies the productivity of man three times as water multiplies the crop of a dry land three times. In some sense, electric power makes not only a physical but also a moral revolution. Bright electric light in public places in a village helps man to feel that he is the master of darkness which previously compelled him to slink into his hut when darkness fell. It is true to say that for the full development of a democratic way of life, the development of a new power which enhances the power of man is an essential ingredient. There is a formula of Lenin which I saw inscribed in primary schools in Russia. It read thus: Electricity+Soviets=Communism.On this view, Soviets did not make Communism. It was the addition of electric power to the political organisation of the Soviets that made Communism. For democratic India, I would lay down a corresponding formula thus: Electricity+Education=Democracy. Power drawn out from nature has to reinforce power drawn out from man in order to build up a democratic way of life. In democracy, political power is arranged in small packets. In electricity, too, the power of nature can be distributed in small packets.</p>
		<p>In this country, today the primary need is for﻿ employment of its men and women. The wage earned at the lowest levels is of the order of thirty rupees a month. Relatively to our present conditions, this needs to be raised to say, hundred rupees a month. It is electric power that can multiply present incomes three times if it is used in the development of cottage and small scale industries as well as agriculture. Towards such a development a Mysore saturated with electric power to the level of Japan can lead the way.</p>
		<p>The Planning Commission attaches importance not merely to economic development but to the achieving of such development through the initiative and willing work of villagers who are the large base of Indian democracy. What they need, in what manner they would fulfil their needs, what efforts they can themselves make are given primary attention. I have found in villages in Community Project and National Extension Service areas a new spirit of initiative and self-help growing. The work of rural improvement has been fostered by Mysore administrators for several decades. This has helped in the new movement of progress in villages through villagers. The use of man power in villages opens up a new engineering, which may be called human engineering. Long ago I came across a book called the "Coming of Coal" in which the thesis of the author was that European civilization was built on the surplus energy furnished by coal. In India we have not much coal or oil. But we have many men. Before Stephenson knew how to draw out the energy of coal, coal was a piece of mud. Nobody complains of having too much coal. But complaint is made when there is a large population. If an engineer of man could draw out energy from man, then a large population will be an asset rather than a liability. We may presume that God has taken more time to make a man than﻿ a piece of coal and more energy should be locked up in man than in coal. I therefore regard the problem of India and China as under - development rather than over populaition. According to an interesting account given by engineers Kanwar San and K.L. Row, China has constructed large irrigation works with the help of her man power. She is said to have built a canal hundred miles long in eighty days. Twelve lakhs of people are stated to have been used for such quick and large work. Could China have done this without a large population? China thus is developing the engineering not only of water but also of man. Indeed the "Coming of Man" may help to build up the civilization of Asia as the "Coming of Coal" did that of Europe.</p>
		<p>I have placed before you some of the thoughts that strike me as you, young graduates of the year, join us older graduates in the intellectual march of India. May you in this march realize a sense of adventure! May you, each in his measure, contribute to the creative 'activity of India with which alone she can occupy her place in the forefront of nations! May you play your part in the concrete development of India with the fervour of religion ! On behalf of the elders who are gathered at this Convocation, let me wish you all good fortune in the life to which you are being called today.﻿ </p>
	</section>
	<section class="level1 numbered" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" id="id-004">
		<h1 class="level1-title" epub:type="title">Address delivered at the Convocation of the University of Mysore on Thursday, 27th October 1955, by Prof. M.S. Thacker Director, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, Government of India</h1>
		<p>YOUR HIGHNESS, MR. VICE-CHANCELLOR AND MEMBERS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MYSORE,<br />LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,</p>
			<p>When I received the invitation to address this Convocation of the Mysore University, I felt happy for several reasons. A personal one is that a portion of my life has been intimately linked with the State of Mysore.</p>
			<p>Nature has blessed Mysore in an exceptional degree. She has clothed her mountain slopes with virgin forests and peopled the valleys with a gentle race for ever under the protection of the goddess <em>Chamundi,</em> whose temple adorns the city's beaconhill and the illumination from which offers a warm welcome to every person in search of beauty and peace.</p>
			<p>Before I deal with the problems that, to my mind, face our youth, I should like to refer briefly to our country's tradition in learning and scholarship. From the forest universities of the <em>Rishis,</em> whose outpourings of heart have been immortalised in the philosophic portions of the Vedas, down to the Sutra period when rituals and rules of conduct were laid down, and onward to the age of <em>Buddha,</em> whose 2,500th anniversary we shall be celebrating next year, there is a continuous and unbroken tradition of scholarship. The main stream of Hindu culture gathered to itself various schools of thought and philosophy, till, in the hands of Sankara, it attained monumental perfection. This philosophersaint of the South erected a superstructure of thought﻿ which has astonished subsequent generations by its loftiness of concept and its analytical genius.</p>
			<p>There was yet another stream of thought which started with <em>Sakyamuni.</em> This stream absorbed within itself the divergent cultures of distant lands. It swept through natural frontiers of mountain, forest and the high seas, and blossomed into the mysticism of medieval China and Japan; in Tibet, Nepal and Eastern Asia, its Tantrism intermingled with Hinduism and produced <em>Mahayana Buddhism</em>. As the civilisation in Europe has been moulded by the thought of Greece and Rome, in Asia the two great streams of Hinduism and Buddhism intermingled and produced a rich culture. Indeed, it was the genius of India which produced the variegated mosaic pattern that constitutes Asian culture. Here, I should like to touch upon the great universities of Buddhist India-<em>Nalanda, Takshashila</em> and <em>Vikramashila,</em> where students from Ceylon rubbed shoulders with Tibetan and Chinese devotees of the Great Master. In the fourth century B.C., and perhaps even earlier, students from distant lands sat at the feet of Indian savants to learn geometry, music, poetry, philosophy and science. The Chinese scholars who visited these centres of learning during the early centuries of the Christian era have borne testimony to the great cultural influence exerted by them. Long before the European nations emerged from their swaddling clothes as it were, students were flocking to our land from distant corners of Asia drawn by the vision of truth that sprang out of the meditation of a mendicant prince under a ficus tree. The Gurukula of ancient India was a miniature university where youth was entrusted confidently by its guardians to teachers whose learning and character alone commanded respect, not worldly possessions, as most of them were not endowed with them. It is a﻿ far cry from the universities of those epochs to the halls and laboratories of today, but the same tradition which helped us to build the great seats of learning in the past, continues to inspire us today.</p>
			<p>To a person like myself, who has lived through the period of two world wars, the acid test of university education is the extent to which it has contributed to the preservation of those eternal values which alone make life worth living. In the ultimate analysis, the purpose of higher education would be fulfilled only if it enlarges and sustains human values. If it leads only to the fashioning of weapons of destruction, to the spreading of hatred and bitterness, and if it contributes, as in some countries, to the spread of race hatred and irrational discrimination between man and man, then I say, in all earnestness, it would be a good day for humanity if the universities are closed down. In the scramble for power and prosperity, there is the danger of ignoring, and even forgetting, the meaning and essence of life. My conception of a university is some what similar to that of Plato—that which fosters the integration and synthesis of thought and morality, that which is conducive to the active cultivation of beauty and truth. A university should promote the pursuit of science for the good it confers on the human race and for inculcating the spirit of objective thinking. The acquisition of knowledge for its own sake is an end worthy in itself. Perhaps the greatest advances in science have been made by men who had no motive other than the pursuit of truth for its own sake. As the Mahabharata says:</p>
			<p class="verse">
			प्रज्ञा प्रतिष्ठा भूतानाम्, <br />
			प्रज्ञा लाभः परो भतः ।<br />
			प्रज्ञा निःश्रेयसो लोके<br />
			प्रज्ञा स्वर्गो मतः सताम् ॥
			</p>
		<p class="myquote">" Knowledge is the support of beings<br />knowledge is the greatest acquisition;<br /> knowledge is the greatest happiness;<br />knowledge is considered by the wise as heaven." How far the universities of the present day conform to this ideal is a question worth attention.</p>
		<p class="text-center"><strong>The Humanistic Ideal</strong></p>
		<p>Now I come to a subject which has acquired some importance recently in our country, namely, the relative emphasis in our universities on humanities and sciences. To a country like ours, which has entered the comity of materially advanced nations at a somewhat late stage, the problem is of some importance. The great progress of Britain and France in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries was due, in a great measure, to the stimulus given by the Industrial Revolution. There was a spurt in intellectual activity associated with the growth of towns. The merchant class supplanted the landed aristocracy in the leadership of society and mass production which resulted in the cheapening of consumer goods brought them into contact with the citizen. The whole pattern of development was determined by scientific advances which, in their turn, were greatly influenced by the universities. Though the pattern of development may not have been the same in all the countries of the world, there is a discernible uniformity in the development of the industrial nations in the West. Their progress has depended, to a large measure, on scientific research and technology. The prospect of following this pattern of development in our country is a fascinating one and in the last few years, thanks to the genius of our Prime Minister, we have seen the springing up, in different parts of the country, a number﻿ of institutes in which applied research is being encouraged and fostered. This spectacular enlargement of facilities for research has provided vast opportunities for young men and women to pursue objective enquiry in various branches of science and technology. These institutes which have a great part to play in the economic development of the country depend for their personnel on universities, which are traditionally the fountain sources for the discovery and training of the nation's talent. The universities will have to accept this responsibility.</p>
		<p>I now revert to the part played by the study of humanities in inculcating the humanistic ideal. We all know that the main springs of western thought are derived from the Greeco-Roman tradition. It has been said that there is no better training for the mind than the study of Greek literature. So far as our country is concerned, we have the vast and rich Sanskrit literature to inspire us. Our country is replete with gems of literature in other languages also. The beautiful poetry of Tulsidas, Kabir and Surdas have come to us from the valleys of the Ganga and the Jamuna. The great Hindi language, the mother of a host of tongues spoken by over one hundred million people, has a vast literature with a great appeal to the intellect and the soul. We have also other languages with literature going back to thousands of years. Drama and poetry enriched Indian literature long before "the glory that was Greece and the splendour that was Rome" were born. The sculpture of the Gupta age and the architecture of South Indian temples bear witness to the spell exercised by the vision of beauty upon the Indian mind. The genius which produced these imperishable monuments can again blossom forth and produce works of art, not inferior to any in world's history. Perhaps the manifestation of the humanistic ideal in the modern era is to be found in Gandhism. The political emancipation of one-fifth of the world's population is only one of the achievements of this manifestation. The teachings of Mahatma Gandhi have inspired many statesmen all over the world. When the history of our times comes to be written, I hope it would be possible to assess at their true value the labours of our leaders who have kept the ideal before them and who have, undeterred by criticism, striven to bring about international understanding in a world riven by race hatred and economic rivalry.</p>
		<p>What I wish to emphasise here is that the concept of humanistic ideal which the universities should propagate is far more important than the teaching of traditional humanistic subjects. While it is true that these subjects offer rich opportunities for the development of the ideal we have in view, there is no conflict between humanities and sciences. The concept of the humanistic ideal touches the spirit as well as the body, and emphasises the development of the whole man inclusive of his special skills artistic, mechanical, industrial and professional. In educating students into maturity and citizenship, every element in the university curriculum has to make its fullest contribution.</p>
		<p class="text-center"><strong>Discipline and Self-restraint</strong></p>
		<p>I wish to refer to an aspect of university life which is rather controversial, namely, the problem of discipline in our universities. One hears constantly of university authorities and educationists lamenting the rank indiscipline among students. The news papers carry accounts of students' demands which are﻿ often incapable of being satisfied; leaders are mobbed and placards are carried aloft in processions. People of the older generation shake their heads in despair. It appears to me, however, that this is only a passing phase and is an indication of the exuberance of youth. There is no gainsaying, however, that discipline in the sense of self-restraint and voluntary acceptance of rules in the interests of the community as a whole is absolutely vital for progress.</p>
		<p class="verse">वेदस्योपनिषद् सत्यम्,<br /> सत्यस्योपनिषद् दमः।<br /> दमस्योपनिषद् मोक्षः,<br /> एतत् सर्वानुशासनम् ॥</p>
		<p>"The secret meaning of the Vedas is truth; of truth, self-control; and of self-control, release from bondage; this is the complete gospel"..</p>
		<p>We refrain from violence and accept discipline not because of the fear of policemen, but because we are actuated by ethical values and guided by good sense. Students are no exception to this. I appeal to the students to realise that they have a noble and responsible part to play in the India of the future. They should equip themselves fully to play their parts as citizens of a great country by consciously and deliberately developing qualities of self-control and restraint. It is through adherence to moral and ethical values the problems facing the nation can be solved. The basic problem of our country, namely, the eradication of poverty, cannot be solved without the cultivation of human sympathy and the abolition of barriers which make understanding among the various sections of the people impossible. For the promotion of these and other constructive endeavours, students should band﻿ themselves together in a disciplined manner and dedicate themselves to serve the nation.</p>
		<p class="text-center"><strong>Language and Progress</strong></p>
		<p>We have yet another controversy and that centres round the question of language. The need for one Union language has been accepted; that Hindi should be that language, is now beyond the pale of controversy. Having accepted this, what is to be the medium of instruction in universities? Can we dispense with the use of English which has been taught in our universities during the past several decades? These and a number of ancillary questions are engaging the attention of our leaders. Differences of opinion are possible on every issue and nothing is gained by dogmatic assertions. So far as science is concerned, it will take some time-perhaps some considerable time-before our languages are equipped to deal with scientific ideas. In this age, when man has tapped the ultimate source of energy—the energy within the atom-it is idle to contend that one can retreat into a shell and isolate himself from the main currents of thought.</p>
		<p>The decision that the official language of the Union shall be Hindi in Devanagari script having been taken, it is now necessary to demarcate clearly the spheres of regional languages and the language of the Union. Language is a great cementing factor for national unity and the development of Hindi should claim our prior attention. This does not imply that such development should be at the expense of regional languages. The great thoughts of saints, poets and scholars enshrined in the literature of various Indian languages should be widely propagated. Active interest should be created in the people of the North to learn﻿ at least one South Indian language and efforts for propagating Hindi in the South should be continued. I should suggest the setting up of an Academy of Scholars to undertake the task of translating works of literature from Hindi into South Indian languages and vice versa. How many men are there today in India who can read and understand the three Ramayanas: the one in Sanskrit by Valmiki, the second in Tamil by Kamba and the third in Hindi by Tulsidas. I may remind you here of a statement of a great stylist and writer on political subjects: "It is easier to create the mechanics of social unity than to create the spiritual counterpart." It is the spiritual unity, not mere external unity, that we should aim at. Language in which the deep urges of the people are expressed is one of the means for bringing about that enduring unity and establishing a sense of kinship. The consciousness of having faced dangers together and the possession of common historic memories have enabled people to come together. This coming together should now be made permanent. The elements which make for unity should be fostered and fissiparous tendencies must be rooted out.</p>
		<p class="text-center"><strong>Education and Leadership</strong></p>
		<p>One of the functions of higher education is to train the youth for leadership. It is from the ranks of university scholars that leaders generally emerge. The growth of the British Parliamentary system would probably not have taken the course it has but for the vision and statesmanship of the great leaders of public opinion in British history; such leaders have generally hailed from universities. The fact that some of the labour leaders in the British political life were men﻿ drawn from the working class does not disprove this generalisation, because these men learned as students of universities, attended classes outside their working hours and equipped themselves with the knowledge necessary for leadership. The careers of men like H.G. Wells, one of the greatest thinkers of our time, bear witness to the fact that in moulding the intellect of the members of the working class, universities have played a significant part. One of the suggestions I would like to make here is that the part-time system of training in our universities should be expanded. It is necessary that the worker who is engaged throughout the day in the task of winning his bread, should be given an opportunity to obtain university education in his spare time. Some universities offer such facilities in a limited number of subjects. There is need, however, to extend these courses to cover a larger range of subjects.</p>
		<p>Another method which might be tried in India is the Polytechnic system of education. On the continent of Europe, some of the eminent men of science have had their education in Polytechnics. It should be possible to democratise education without lowering standards. Higher education should be brought within the reach of everyone who is fit to receive it, whether or not he is in a position to afford it. In this connection, I should like to draw attention to the need for the institution of a large number of scholarships and fellowships in order to tap the talent that lies undiscovered in our country. There must be men in various obscure corners of the country, eating out their hearts in misery for want of educational opportunities. They should be sought out, supported and enabled to contribute their mite to national progress. An organization should be set up to discover young men of talent and﻿ to help them to obtain university education. This would necessarily involve expenditure, but I am sure, the return would amply repay investment.</p>
		<p>Universities are much more than cloistered monasteries catering to the needs of a limited number of individuals. They are centres whence knowledge of arts and sciences radiates and brings enlightenment to the people at large. A university, in my conception, is not merely a place to which students go to learn facts; it is an island of knowledge planted in the midst of a community, whence should go forth scholars to spread knowledge among the people who have not the means to go to universities or who have missed the opportunity of doing so. This necessarily entails a different approach to the problem of higher education from the one that has hitherto prevailed. Universities should be brought into closer touch with the people by means of extension lectures, vacation seminars, etc.</p>
		<p>In this connection, I should like to draw attention to the part which universities can be made to play in the integrated life of the community and the country's development. It should be possible to establish closer links between the universities on the one hand and industries on the other; university men might visit industrial undertakings and factories and see how ideas are being transformed into goods and commodities, while the busy factory, chemist or engineer might occasionally visit universities and equip himself with information on the latest advances in his specialised field and generally gain an understanding of the fundamental aspects, which must never be lost sight of even by those engaged in the practical applications of science and technology. I am sure, both universities and industry will benefit by this mutual exchange of ideas. Universities in America have established close﻿ contacts with industry with advantage to both, and it should be possible in our country to bring about similar liaison.</p>
		<p>I have already referred to the role of universities in the discovery and training of leaders. I should like to dwell briefly on the need for training youth for citizenship. Such training will enable one to function usefully as a citizen and make him realise his civic responsibilities. Everyone should have some understanding of the basis of Government and of the forces which contribute to political stability. The exercise of franchise in a democracy vests a citizen with new responsibilities and calls for an informed understanding of the social, economic and political factors operating in the progress of the nation. Universities would render great service by instituting course of study in civics and citizenship.</p>
		<p class="text-center"><strong>Employment Opportunities</strong></p>
		<p>I should like to refer here to a problem which is of rather serious moment for our youth, namely, employment opportunities for educated men. The total number of educated unemployed, by which I mean unemployed matriculates, intermediates and graduates, at the end of June 1955 was high. A disturbing feature of the situation is that a large number of trained personnel is unemployed. There is apparently a lack of co-ordination between universities and industry; either the universities do not understand the needs of industry or the universities do not provide the kind of training required by industry. In any case, it is necessary to examine the curricula of universities and, if necessary, recast them to make them more realistic. This should be done as soon as possible.</p>
		<p>One aspect of this problem is the need for a shift of emphasis from Government service to private employment and the professions. The dependence, in the past, of young men on Government service was inevitable in the context of foreign rule, when those in power were interested in the creation of an army of officials to ensure the continuance of political dependence. In the new atmosphere of freedom, when obstacles to economic development have disappeared, industry should absorb at a faster rate than the universities can produce, all the educated and trained personnel. The first Five Year Plan has been welcomed by many and assailed by a few. While no perfect plan, which can satisfy all, is possible, one has only to move from one part of the country to another to realise the quickening of life brought about by the operation of the State sponsored plan and to appreciate the increased employment opportunities.</p>
		<p>The young men and women who receive their degrees today will be drafted into various professions, some into medicine and law, some into teaching, and others into engineering, chemical and other industries. Our country is woefully deficient in trained medical personnel. The proportion of doctors to the population is very low and unless early steps are taken to open more medical faculties in our universities, the gap will become even worse. Some of the alumni of this university will enter the legal profession. I would like to remind them that throughout the history of mankind, the best representatives of their profession have championed the cause of the depressed and the downtrodden. About teachers, I shall only say, the moulding of the character and the intelligence of the future generations is entrusted to them; theirs is a most responsible and onerous task. Engineering, chemical﻿ and other industries, trade and commerce, which are rapidly developing in the country, will claim a good number of the university alumni. The Second Five-Year Plan comprehends many projects for the development of basic and consumer goods industries. The operation of the plan will require the services of a large number of engineers and technologists. Whatever the call, everyone should be guided by devotion to duty and the determination to uphold high professional standards. The university has equipped you, young men and women, to play your part ably and nobly. What you have learnt and, what is even more important, the training you have obtained during the eventful years of your life in the stimulating atmosphere of the university which enables you to learn hereafter, would help you in acquitting yourselves creditably as worthy citizens of our motherland. There is, in all our hearts, a <em>sanctum sanctorum</em> where we cherish the memories of the years that we have spent at the university.</p>
		<p>Your Highness, Ladies and Gentlemen, I should like to recall to our mind the great foundations laid by the gifted rulers of this State in the past. This university owes its inception to the generosity and idealism of the late Sri Krishna Raja Wadiyar, a ruler of saintly character, high-minded patriotism and soaring vision. Among those associated with it, is that great and distinguished son of India, Dr. Mokshagundam Visvesvaraya, an engineer who has proved that scientists and technologists can be successful administrators. He must rejoice in seeing this University grow from infancy into adulthood, imparting instruction in almost all branches of knowledge and holding out a great promise for the future. The fortunes of the University are being ably guided by its distinguished and gifted Chancellor, Sri Jayachamaraja Wadiyar. The Vice﻿ Chancellor's zeal and devotion has enabled the University to maintain high academic standards.</p>
		<p>It has been a privilege to have been with you all this morning and I render my thanks to the authorities of the University and the State for giving me this opportunity of placing my thoughts before you. I join with you in congratulating the new graduates who will be leaving the portals of this University with hopes and aspirations in the service of our country and, may I say, mankind.﻿﻿</p>
	</section>
	<section class="level1 numbered" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" id="id-005">
		<h1 class="level1-title" epub:type="title">Address delivered at the Convocation of 
		the University of Mysore on Saturday, 1st February 1958, by Padmavibhushan Shri M.C. Setalvad, Attorney-Goneral of India.</h1>
		<p><strong>YOUR HIGHNESS, MR. VICE-CHANCELLOR, GRADUATES, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,</strong></p>
		<p>I deem it a great privilege to have the opportunity to be with you today on an occasion of solemn significance in the life of the University and of joy and happiness to the young men and women who are taking their degrees today. I remember the days, years ago, when students from Mysore used to take their legal education and obtain their law degrees at the University of Bombay; this tie between my Alma Mater and Mysore gives me added gratification in participating in this function.</p>
		<p>The Indian State of Mysore to which the present State is a successor can lay claim to great and noble traditions. When India under the British rule was lagging behind, Mysore was already on the march. Its distinguished rulers, the ancestors of Your esteemed Highness, had the farsightedness to leave the building up of the State to a succession of able administrators who made the State in several matter's like education, public works and engineering schemes, a model for other parts of India to follow. I shall name only one out of the many distinguished and dev oted sons which Mysore has produced; Visvesvaraya, the great engineeradministrator who at the ripe old age of 98, is happily still with us full of energy and ideas. The University of Mysore bears on its roll of professor's and teachers great and honoured names. Those who are receiving their degrees today are, I am sure, justly proud of the﻿ temple of learning out of which they go forth into life and of the great State to which they have the privilege to belong</p>
		<p>May I congratulate you on your entering on your careers at a time unique in the history of our country and in the history of the world?</p>
		<p>For over ten years India has breathed the air of freedom and independence. She has fashioned for herself a democratic Constitution which has enshrined in its memorable Preamble the great ideals of the freedom and the dignity of the individual, equality for all in all walks of life and social and economic justice. The great revolution which brought us our independence and launched us on the path of a social welfare State was peaceful and silent. But for the suffering, misery and carnage caused by the partition and what followed in its wake, one would hardly have realised the great change that came over our country in 1947. After independence we have brought about an equally revolutionary and yet silent change by legislative and administrative measures in many fields. The ideal of a social welfare State set forth in our Constitution has given a complete change of direction to many aspects of our national life and activities. The erstwhile Indian States have been integrated with the country. The Rajas, Maharajas and Princes are now ordinary citizens of the Indian Union. The landlords and intermediaries have ceased to be the middlemen between the State and the tiller of the soil. The country is humming with industrial activity and power installations and huge production plants are springing in to existence in various parts of the country. Science seems to be near occupying the great place which it deserves in modern life with a network of well equipped laboratories spread over the country. The youth of the country is equipping﻿ itself in a number of institutions to take their places in the defence of the country and man its army navy and air force. The traditional immobility of the village side is vanishing with the working of community projects and national extension blocks and the attempts to introduce improved methods of agriculture and to set up cottage industries. The changes in the world as a whole in the course of the last thirty years have been phenomenal and such as stagger our imagination. Man has for good or ill been able to unravel the hidden mysteries of nature and make himself the master of very powerful forces which he can use for his benefit as well as for his destruction. A march into your active lives in these revolutionary and stirring days will be full of adventure and opportunity such as never could have come the way of us of the older generation. Therein lies your great good fortune.</p>
		<p>Yet these great and fascinating opportunities also involve heavy responsibilities. We have but recently completed our first five year plan which had but a modest objective. We are struggling to launch with success our second plan which aims much higher and the accomplishment of which is beset with many difficulties. What does the success of a plan mean? Can a plan ever succeed without active and energetic cooperation on the part of the people of the land? The building up of the country and the betterment of vast masses of its citizens can never be an effort only on the part of the Government. No Governmental or administrative measures can succeed unless we citizens of all ages put our shoulders to the wheel and make an all out co-operative effort. And perhaps in this respect a higher responsibility lies on the rising generation. In all departments of life we have been lagging far behind, in some by several centuries. We have to﻿ bridge vast gaps in order to reach our objectives. Our villages are backward, ignorant and superstitious. The percentage of literacy in the villages and towns is very low. Cannot the solution of this problem be assisted by a determined effort by every educated man and woman to spread the knowledge of the three R's to the extent that he or she can? What I have mentioned is but an illustration of the manner in which a citizen can, by his voluntary effort, help the country to go forward in promoting literacy. Hundreds of such tasks face the country and such voluntary efforts by the citizens are essential to progress in all fields.</p>
		<p>Owing perhaps to the inertia brought about by foreign rule during which very little initiative was left to the people or, it may be owing to our age-old disposition to accept things as they come as the dispensations of a divine providence, we appeared to have persuaded ourselves to an attitude of drift. When things do not happen the way they ought, to, we have a tendency to blame the state of affairs on the authorities whoever they may be. Is it right to forget that these authorities are but the agencies set up by ourselves and that they can function effectively and efficiently only if every citizen co-operates with them? If we are alert, awake and active we will surely galvanize the authorities into the necessary activity, import vitality into their actions and correct their attitudes wherever they be in error. If every citizen regarded the affairs of his town, city, village or State as an affair of his own and exerted himself accordingly, there is little doubt that the shape of things would be very different and our progress greatly accelerated.</p>
		<p>It has been said that the young man today is apt to be slack and superficial. It is said that he rarely puts his heart into his work or his profession and wants to﻿ achieve results as cheaply and with as small an effort as possible. Perhaps this comment arises from the innate tendency in us to glorify the past and to view the present as something lesser and inferior. Wherever the truth may lie, it is clear that all our attempts to remove ignorance and poverty from our midst and to raise the country to higher standards of life must fail unless the citizens as a mass put forward the best in them and strive their utmost to roll the country on in its forward march.</p>
		<p>I am conscious that some of you are already under heavy responsibilities for the support of yourselves and the members of your family and others will soon have to shoulder such responsibilities. That undoubtedly is your first duty and the performance of that duty will doubtless take a great deal of your time and energy. But I venture to say that your pre-occupation with these duties can never furnish a good reason for failing to assist in the greater task of lending a hand in the building of your community, your State or your country. As a great writer has said: "There is nothing worth doing which can remain undone for want of time or opportunity."</p>
		<p>The world around us urges us even more peremptorily to strenuous and unsparing effort. The Western countries have during the last hundred years made enormous strides in science and industry. The atomic age is about to pass into a yet newer phase, the Sputnik age. The amazing rapidity of the new found methods of travel and communication has drawn nations and countries into close inter-dependence. In the scientific field we have hardly made a start and in the industrial field we have just begun. If we are to enter the race at all-and we must for the alternative is to be wiped out of existence, we must run fast and with vigour and strength. If﻿ we slacken now we shall be irretrievably lost.</p>
		<p>One has only to look around to perceive the great progress which some nations have made in relatively short periods. What a marvellous change has the great Russian nation achieved in the forty years from 1917 to 1957 ! A country which forty years ago was medieval and backward has shot forward today to be the second greatest industrial country in the world. Not only has she built up a vast industrial potential and great military might but it is today almost in the vanguard in scientific advance. This great transformation has been brought about by the determined and heroic efforts of a few great leaders backed by the loyal co-operation of a regimented nation. China which has recently started has also made immense progress. It is true that the totalitarian methods of government in vogue in these countries have rendered possible their rapid progress. We have, however, chosen the path of democracy and individual liberty and we can achieve our advancement only in the democratic way by the free and willing co-operation of the people. The choice of democracy and freedom as our way of life makes the need for a sustained, continuous, co-operative and intensive effort by the nation as a whole absolute and imperative. Complete and unstinted co-operation with Government in all its measures for the uplift of the nation and sustained effort in the same direction on our own initiative are the only watchwords which can carry us to our goal. Unremitting toil for the weal of our motherland for many a year to come must be the motto of every youth leaving the University.</p>
		<p>Though we are making vigorous efforts to improve our material resources, one feels that we are somewhat faltering and hesitant in one important matter which is vital to the building up of our nation. As important,﻿ if not more important to our progress than the growth of our natural resources, is the education and training of the vast mass of human material which our nation possesses. It is no doubt vastly important to found, overhaul, rebuild and expand our industries and find new sources of power and production. But it is equally important to educate our youth and equip it with knowledge and training in the most modern manner. We are spending crores of rupees in the building of our power plants and factories and making use of foreign experts to assist us in our great industrial effort. Do we not equally need experts to overhaul our entire system of education, cultural, professional and scientific, so that the youth who come out of our educational institutions or universities may in no way be inferior to those educated and trained in the institutions of the advanced nations of the West? It is only when we have adequately educated and trained our vast human resources that we will be able to find enough men to run and work our numerous newly founded industries and new built factories and the many institutions and establishment indispensable to the growth and progress of the country. Yet this vital need of the nation remains neglected and the direction of our education is in most cases in the hands of persons who are outmoded and completely out of touch with modern educational methods and ideals.</p>
		<p>The rising youth of this country has a still greater task to perform. It has to strive its utmost to root out from the country all separatist, regional and communal tendencies and give birth to an active, living and militant Indian nationhood.</p>
		<p>Though we have been accustomed to talk of Bharatvarsh of old, we may not forget that for centuries we have been torn asunder into sections, communities and regions. The country became for the first time an entire unit under one administration under British rule. We had under it a more or less common form of administration and a uniform system of laws and the administration of justice. Through education in English and English as a medium, there grew up an intelligentsia in the country which banding itself together cultivated the idea of Indian nationhood and ultimately led the masses to victory in the battle for independence and freedom from foreign rule. British rule, tyrannous, stagnating and burdensome in so many ways, helped in a considerable measure to build up into a united Indian nation with English as the language of communication among the leaders of the nation.</p>
		<p>When the British left us, our inborn sectional and separatist tendencies began to show themselves. The cry for linguistic divisions of the country which had been persistently raised during the British regime having regard to the conditions then prevailing was again raised, soon after independence. In the British times the demand had perhaps its roots in our desire for self-expression and for the building up of cohesive units whose demands for self-government would become difficult for the British to resist. With the advent of independence that approach had lost its importance. On the contrary what became urgent after 1947 was the building up of the ideal of a united Indian nationhood all over the country. The question that posed itself before the leaders of the nation was whether in the new set up of the country the demand for these divisions had any importance. In any case the question was whether, having regard to the host of problems calling for immediate solution, had such a division, even if it be desirable, any claim for priority. Twice was the demand carefully considered and rejected by men of vision and foresight who knew the separatist tendencies latent in us. One of them, the great Sardar who had with unparalleled Statescraft integrated princely India into Indian India, could hardly look with favour on an idea which in a sense was an idea of disintegrating what had, with painful and far-seeing effort, been integrated. Eventually with the persistent reiteration of the demand, we all know how a Commission was appointed to examine the question of the administrative divisions of the country and enquire whether it was necessary to recast them from various points of view including the point of view of linguistic units. The Commission's Report, its recommendations and the aftermath of the Report, are fresh in the minds of us all. Leaving aside the question of the wisdom of the initiation of this enquiry and of the recommendations made by the Commission, what happened after the Report clearly showed that our communal, racial and linguistic rivalries had been only dormant during our struggle for independence and that they were still ingrained in us and were as it were a part and parcel of our being. The frenzy which we exhibited and the bitterness and anger which in those days an Indian showed against a brother Indian should, many think, make us remember those days with regret and even remorse. Did it matter in the least to the prosperity or progress of our motherland whether a few villages or a few thousand square yards of territory formed part of State A or State B? Did it make the least difference to the cultivator or to the shopkeeper whether he carried on his occupation in one State or a neighbouring one? did the development of a culture and the growth of a language depend on whether their habitat was an exclusive region which was not shared by sister cultures and sister languages? Yet our passions were so deeply﻿ stirred on these trivial issues that we completely lost our balance and looked at matters in a wholly distorted. perspective. We became the instruments of the cunning politician hungering for office and the noisy agitator fomenting disorder.</p>
		<p>We have thus erected ourselves by and large into linguistic divisions. Time alone will show what repercussions these divisions are going to have on Indian unity. There is little doubt that for a time the tendencies exhibited are those which point towards disunity and disruption.</p>
		<p>We know at any rate the highly disturbing immediate consequences of these changes. We are a poor country. There is not enough food to go round and we have to expend our precious and limited foreign exchange for its purchase from abroad. We need every inch of our financial resources for promoting our plans. We need also all the energy our citizens can command for pulling our country out of its present condition. Yet in working out the changes necessitated by these recent linguistic divisions, we have had to spend large amounts on new buildings and new constructions. We have shifted some of our capitals to new places and in some places whole new towns or townships have had to be built. We have had to discard developed and grown places where buildings are lying idle and unoccupied. Numerous officials all over the country with large staffs are still working at the integration of the services and the financial resources of some of the newly formed units where considerable administrative confusion prevails. Forgetting how important it was in our present condition to conserve every ounce of our resources and energy and forgetting all sense of priorities, we have in the name of these linguistic divisions frittered away a substantial amount of our time, strength, energy and﻿ resources.</p>
		<p>That is a story which one hopes has come to an end. I should not have referred to it but for the moral it carries for us all. The older generation brought up in the atmosphere of communal and sectional divisions was not able to withstand these separatist and parochial tendencies. They forgot that the mighty rivers that flow through our land the Ganga and the Jamuna in the north and the Krishna and the Cauvery in the south, rivers whom a majority of them worship--know no boundaries or regions and carry sustenance to all who inhabit their banks. Let us hope and trust that the newer generation who have heard the battle cry of frendom will rise above the senarrow and parochial views and lay the true foundations of a real and closely welded Indian nation.</p>
		<p>One may refer in this connection to a sphere of our educational activity which has begun to exhibit narrow and parochial tendencies. No sooner had we won our freedom each one of us began to think only of his own language, and its literature. The medium of instruction in the higher ranges of education which was English is fast being displaced by the regional languages. That is perhaps as it should be, at any rate in subjects which are not of a technical or scientific character. But we do not stop at making the regional language the medium of instruction. We are at the same time discouraging the teaching of English and relegating it to a three years course at the stage of secondary education. This attitude is difficult of comprehension. As I have said before, the English language has been the most powerful single influence which has worked for the unification of the country. It is through the use of English as a common language that men in all parts of our country have been able to come together and﻿ Englishnce. Noch therall as it build up a common front whether it be in politics, history or religion. We seem now out to lay the axe as it were on the very tree on which our unity has blossomed. It will be so easy for the country to be rent asunder into groups and regions if we lose this medium of communication which we shall if our knowledge of English deteriorates. By discouraging its knowledge we shall also lose the great advantage we have at present of being in constant touch with the rest of the world. As we all know, English has grown into an international language. It is the language most widely spoken at all international gatherings. The Russians and the Germans teach English in their schools to their children because of its importance. Non-English writers of technical books frequently publish their writings simultaneously in their own language as well as in the English language because of its very wide appeal. Without a good knowledge of English, books on science and technology and medicine cannot be availed of by our students and teachers. If a young child in Sweden or Switzerland can be taught three languages which include in addition to his own the English language, there is no reason why the Indian boys and girls should not be able to do the same. It is imperative that we should not be induced by either a false pride in our own language or out of a feeling of antipathy towards our former rulers to embark upon a course which will do incalculable harm to our future generations and to the nation as a whole.</p>
		<p>The recent controversy over the official language is yet another instance of parochial, communal and regional tendencies affecting our perspective in an important matter. If India is to be one nation it is obvious that there must be an official language in which the different units constituting the country should be﻿ able to communicate with one another and communicate with the Centre. It should be equally obvious that the official language can only be one of our Indian languages and not a foreign language though it may have a fair or even a large use in India. English which is understood but by a small fraction of our population cannot be the official language. Hindi being an Indian language spoken by the largest percentage of the population would for that reason be the most suitable to be adopted as the official language. The Constitutionmakers after long debates came to this conclusion and fixed tentatively 1965 as the date by which the change over to Hindi should be accomplished. Soon after this, however began a two-fold process typical of the narrow ideas the isms with which we are apt to be swayed. Some Hindi enthusiastis showed themselves to be in a great hurry to rush large masses of the population into the use of Hindi even though they were not yet acquainted with that language. It was not surprising that such an attitude created a reaction in other parts of the country. Amazingly enough this reaction took an extreme form when some persons began to advocate the adoption of English as the official language. But for the fact that such a view has been expressed, one should have thought that the adoption of a foreign language as the nation's official language, would be unthinkable And yet some adherents to this view which has been described as "the prattle of those who think that patriotism and national self-respect have no more use for us" are men who had at one time or other occupied important positions in public life. If the unity of the country has to be maintained, English must for many years yet continue to serve not only as the official language but as the language in which Indians from different parts can exchange their ideas. Hindi has yet﻿ to grow and develop and large masses of the population have yet to know it and get accustomed to its use before it can effectively take its place as the language of our official communications, our legislation and our law courts. But in order that it may in a measurable distance of time take this place, planned programmes for its teaching and use—it may be even pari passu with English—must be laid down. Let us not in the meanwhile encourage our separatist tendencies by raising bitter controversies over this question. Let us not listen to the voice of the angry controversialist who is not happy unless he has raised a bitter debate or to the voice of the old time enthusiast for English who having been educated in English cannot dream of any other language displacing it. Let us shake off our regional prejudices and linguistic predelictions and take the obvious and commonsense view that we should carry on with English as long as necessary and gradually change over to Hindi as Hindi grows and develops not forgetting that it is essential to do this as soon as practicable.</p>
		<p>I have referred to these reactionary tendencies which seem to lie in our very blood in order to appeal to you the youth of the country to rise above them and take a wider view. India will not rise to greatness unless our youth rush out like iconoclasts to break the idols of regionalism and communalism. May I appeal to the youth of the nation to do their utmost to remember that they are all sons of one motherland and that the claims of our country to our loyalty are paramount. We can survive as a nation only if we are able to build and sustain a truly patriotic and wide-based Indian nationhood.</p> 
		<p>Let me in conclusion wish you, the sons and daughters of the new and enlarged State of Mysore godspeed and good fortune in your future careers.</p>
		<p class="text-center"><strong>JAI HIND</strong></p>
	</section>
	<section class="level1 numbered" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" id="id-006">
		<h1 class="level1-title" epub:type="title">Address delivered at the Convocation of the University of Mysore on Sunday 2nd October 1960 by Anna Rao Ganamukhi, Minister for Education and Pro-Chancellor, Mysore University</h1>
		<p><strong>YOUR HIGHNESS,</strong></p>
		<p>I deem it a great privilege to have been honoured with an invitation to address this Convocation. Ever since I received it I have been wondering why I should have been chosen for this unique privilege; because nobody else is so conscious of my limitations as I am. I am by no means a worthy member of that galaxy of distinguished educationists, scientists and thinkers who have addressed the Convocation in the previous years; nor can I claim any extraordinary qualification to join their ranks this year. However in all humility I may perhaps prefer the claim of seniority in years over the graduates of the year and as an elder brother I have every right to share their joy on such a momentous occasion as this. I have traversed a little more distance on the path of life than they have done so far and much have I seen and heard and learnt and when I turn round and witness the mighty march of youth on the horizon, I may be permitted to address a few words of gratulation and cheer, of caution and hope so that their journey in life might be more pleasant and prosperous. I am grateful to His Highness the Chancellor and the University for this honour.</p>
		<p>GRADUATES OF THE YEAR</p>
		<p>Let me offer our hearty congratulations to all of you on your well-merited success. After many arduous﻿ to grow and develop and large masses of the population have yet to know it and get accustomed to its use before it can effectively take its place as the language of our official communications, our legislation and our law courts. But in order that it may in a measurable distance of time take this place, planned programmes for its teaching and use--it may be even pari passu with English-must be laid down. Let us not in the meanwhile encourage our separatist tendencies by raising bitter controversies over this question. Let us not listen to the voice of the angry controversialist who is not happy unless he has raised a bitter debate or to the voice of the old time enthusiast for English who having been educated in English cannot dream of any other language displacing it. Let us shake off our regional prejudices and linguistic predelictions and take the obvious and commonsense view that we should carry on with English as long as necessary and gradually change over to Hindi as Hindi grows and develops not forgetting that it is essential to do this as soon as practicable.</p>
		<p>I have referred to these reactionary tendencies which seem to lie in our very blood in order to appeal to you the youth of the country to rise above them and take a wider view. India will not rise to greatness unless our youth rush out like iconoclasts to break the idols of regionalism and communalism. May I appeal to the youth of the nation to do their utmost to remember that they are all sons of one motherland and that the claims of our country to our loyalty are paramount. We can survive as a nation only if we are able to build and sustain a truly patriotic and wide-based Indian nationhood.</p>
		<p>Let me in conclusion wish you, the sons and daughters of the new and enlarged State of Mysore, godspeed and good fortune in your future careers.</p>
		<p>JAI HIND﻿ of the heritage that has accrued unto you by the fact that you are graduates. You are the inheritors of a long tradition of learning and thought. You are part of the whole history of human education. While it is doubtful if it is proper to associate geographical limitations with education, for the sake of convenience we may trace the history of education in our country and in the West.</p>
		<p>Education in our country began as soon as organised life began. Our forefathers had a wellestablished system of higher education in which we see the glimmerings of the idea of the modern Universities'. The aim of education, which drew its inspiration from religion, has been defined as "Chitta-prasada", "clarity of insight and illumined tranquility." Education was arranged on three steps of ascending order: (1) Sravana: listening to the utterance of the teacher, (2) Manana: reflection on the topic taught, (3) Nidhidhyasa: Meditation on the One, the Absolute Truth, undisturbed by the ephemeral thoughts relating to the transient Many. You will notice that the purpose of education was correlated with the essence of the ancient prayer:</p>
		<p>"From the unreal, lead me unto Reality, From darkness, lead me unto Light, From death, lead me unto Deathlessness."</p>
		<p>Such a system of education imposed a very strenuous discipline which only a few had the mental and moral strength to bear. In spite of it, considering the population then many took to education in various centres of learning.</p>
		<p>The earliest of them was Takshasila in Kandahar. Then came the University of Nalanda, Vikramsila, Valabhi, Banaras and Kanchi. All these corresponded﻿ struggles, you have successfully completed one phase of your lives and you are all entering upon another which, we have no doubt, will be brighter and happier.</p>
		<p>Usually on such an occasion as this it is customary to offer words of advice, but far be it from me to be so presumptuous as to attempt such an act of temerity and arrogance. They say that "no vice is so bad as advice" and an unconsciously profound schoolboy has illustrated the dangers of giving advice by saying this of Socrates: "Socrates was a Greek Philosopher who went about giving people good advice. They poisoned him!". Therefore a lesser man than Socrates, I shall not strain your indulgence too much by venturing to do what is obviously so dangerous!</p>
		<p>However, I may be permitted to share a few thoughts with you. We have assembled here on a very significant day not only in your lives but in the life of the Nation; for today ninety-one years ago, "a supersoul greater than its mortal constituents" came into this world to set this country on the path of Truth and Nonviolence. Today the whole world is celebrating the birth of this Karana Purusha and you must consider yourselves extremely fortunate that the commencement of your lives in real earnest coincides with the Janmadina of Mahatma Gandhi. Out of dust he made us all into men and his whole life was an exemplification of the invincible greatness of spiritual values. Can anyone in this world seek a nobler ideal to place before himself than the life of the Father of the Nation, who, by practising whatever he preached, demonstrated to the whole world that a noble life is one where thought and action are one? My earnest prayer on this occasion is - may every one of you be imbued with the spirit of his life and teachings in everything you do.</p>
		<p>Now that you are leaving the portals of the University it may not be inappropriate if I remind you﻿ of the heritage that has accrued unto you by the fact that you are graduates. You are the inheritors of a long tradition of learning and thought. You are part of the whole history of human education. While it is doubtful if it is proper to associate geographical limitations with education, for the sake of convenience we may trace the history of education in our country and in the West.</p>
		<p>Education in our country began as soon as organised life began. Our forefathers had 'a wellestablished system of higher education in which we see the glimmerings of the idea of the modern Universities'. The aim of education, which drew its inspiration from religion, has been defined as "Chitta-prasada", "clarity of insight and illumined tranquility." Education was arranged on three steps of ascending order: (1) Sravana: listening to the utterance of the teacher, (2) Manana: reflection on the topic taught, (3) Nidhidhyasa: Meditation on the One, the Absolute Truth, undisturbed by the ephemeral thoughts relating to the transient Many. You will notice that the purpose of education was correlated with the' essence of the ancient prayer:</p>
		<p class="myquote">"From the unreal, lead me unto Reality,<br />From darkness, lead me unto Light,<br />From death, lead me unto Deathlessness."</p>
		<p>Such a system of education imposed a very strenuous discipline which only a few had the mental and moral strength to bear. In spite of it, considering the population then many took to education in various centres of learning.</p>
		<p>The earliest of them was Takshasila in Kandahar. 	Then came the University of Nalanda, Vikramsila, Valabhi, Banaras and Kanchi. All these corresponded to what we in modern times call "Residential Universities".	They were communities of teachers and students. Situated far away from the noise and din of cities, they were enlarged versions of the ancient gurukula or ashram, where one guru imparted Vedic learning to his disciples. The teachers residing in these universities were so famous that pupils from all parts of India and also other countries used to flock to them. One of the Kings threatened to declare war when a University would not allow a scholar to accept His Majesty's invitation to honour his court by his presence. I-Tsing, to mention one of the many famous names, came all the way from China to study at Nalanda which at that time boasted of eight Sangharama (college), one of them four storeys high, three extensive libraries, a tall observatory, 'the upper rooms of which were lost in the clouds.‘</p>
		<p>The scholars at Nalanda numbered about 10,000, 8,500 of them being students and 1,500 teachers, figures which give the enviable ratio of one teacher for about 5 or 6 students! The pupil 'paid' according to his ability for the tuition he received; a prince would pay as much as 1,000 pieces of gold but a poor boy would collect fuel for the master or render some other domestic service but the teacher did not give any preferential treatment to the prince! No pupil was considered socially too elevated to do manual labour. Thus there was no scope for the development of what we call 'the white-collar mentality' among scholars in those days. When the pupil had reached an expected degree of academic proficiency, a Parishad (corresponding to a modern Convocation) would be held to award recognition. However a pupil's education did not stop after graduation: it merely prepared one for self-education, which is the only means of self-realisation.﻿</p>
		<p>In Europe too, education originated from the religious impulse. 'The mediaeval friars and monks were the pioneers of academic thought.‘ Such Universities as those in Paris, Bologna and Oxford in Europe date from about the twelfth century; then came Cambridge, Prague and Heidelberg, to mention only a few. The Universities arose as scholastic guilds, guilds of teachers and students, who zealously guarded their academic freedom. ' The students, though poor, were so enthusiastic about learning that they were prepared to undergo all kinds of hardship for the sake of education. They lived as one community with their teachers and they learned as much from personal contact as from the philosophical discussion in which their teachers were frequently engaged. It is these Universities which kept alive the torch of learning and they were the initiators of all those intellectual, cultural and religious movements which made the West what it is today.</p>
		<p>The British started the universities in India with what on the whole must be said to be noble motives. Here it is well to recall what the much-maligned Macaulay said about the subject of education in India in the House of Commons:</p>
		<p>"Are we to keep the people of India ignorant in order that we may keep them submissive? Or do we think that we can give knowledge without awakening ambition? Or do we mean to awaken ambition and to provide it with no legitimate vent? . . . It may be that the public mind of India may expand under our system until it has outgrown that system, that by good government we may educate our subjects into a capacity for better government, that having become instructed in European knowledge, they may, in some future age, demand European institutions. Whether such a day will ever come, I know not. Whenever it comes it will be the proudest day in English History . . . The sceptre may pass away from us. Victory may be inconstant to our arms. But there are triumphs which are followed by no reverse. There is an empire exempt from all natural causes of decay. These triumphs are the pacific triumphs of reason over barbarism: that empire is the imperishable empire of our arts and our morals, our literature and our laws."</p>
		<p>Knowing that conditions in India were not everywhere conducive to the development of Residential Universities, the British Government established three Universities in Bombay, Calcutta and Madras more or less on the lines of London University with the object of 'encouraging a regular and liberal course of liberal education by conferring academical degrees as evidences of attainments in the different branches of art and science.' So great has been the thirst for knowledge in our country that nearly forty Universities have come into being in the last hundred years and there is an increasing demand for more colleges and more Universities. Our Universities have played such an important role in the life of the nation that future historians may well record of them that the History of University Education is the history of progress in India in modern times.</p>
		<p>Now you are the proud possessors of this heritage. It is not sufficient if you merely inherit it and treasure it like a miser who hoards his gold underground. You must also add to it and I have no doubt that you will make a worthy contribution to it. When we hear eloquent panegyrics of our ancient culture, we should﻿ say to ourselves: "No doubt, we have every reason to be proud of the past; will the future be proud of us?". This question, I suggest to you, we should put to ourselves at every step in our lives.</p>
		<p>This raises the question, "what is our duty?". In one word, we may say that it is the improvement of the human condition. That is the goal which we should all have before us. If I may modify the historic words of our beloved Prime Minister, 'If humanity dies, who lives? If it lives, who dies?' I am sorry for striking a gloomy note but looking at the condition of the world today, one has, I am afraid, to be spiritually tough for taking a cheerful view of the future of man. But we should not wring our hands in despair and lament that we have fallen upon bad days. The times may be out of joint but it is for us and in us to set them right. What is sadly lacking in the world today is what the famous <em>Karma-yogi,</em> Albert Schweitzer, has beautifully called 'reverence for life'. Even as modern man is striving to make the world a beautiful place to live in, he is forgetting the ultimate purpose of life. It is here, I suggest to you, that your education can help you. It is true your education should fit you for the business of life but if it does not suggest also a purpose in life, it is futile. Our ancient sages have said that the three stages of learning, <em>Sravana, Manana</em> and <em>Nidhidhyasa,</em> should lead to darsana, a vision of life. No individual without vision, no nation without vision, can flourish. Therefore I appeal to you all that you use the education you have so far received for the purpose of attaining that vision. Your real education begins now.</p>
		<p>While this should be the goal of all educated men some of you who have been trained for certain professions will have to employ special techniques for selffulfillment. GRADUATES IN MEDICINE, permit me to﻿ address a few words to you in particular. Health being the highest good that we know in this world, it is appropriate that I should turn to you first. You have been called to the noblest vocation in life. On you depends the health of the nation and therefore, happiness of all. In this context I should like to transmit the noble words spoken by a distinguished English educationist about a hundred years ago to the graduates of the University of Madras. - "The situation of a doctor is one of the most delicate and confidential in this world. Perfect uprightness, moral courage, kindness of heart and of demeanour, a readiness to sacrifice personal comfort, and other qualities of a similar stamp are all required to be united with knowledge, to constitute a genuine member of your noble profession. But then, what a reward attaches to the discharge of the duties of that profession! See the doctor enter the sick chamber to examine the state of his patient: see the patient's wife watching his every movement, and hanging breathless upon the words that are about to fall from his lips; see the children, too, partially ignorant perhaps of the condition of their father, but still looking upon the Doctor with silent awe! Now, after a careful examination, observe the visitor's cheerful eye anticipating his mouth in the announcement of the departure of all danger: and watch the silent but how expressive gratitude of a whole family! Surely the power thus to ease overstrained heart is one of the most delightful possessions that man can have."</p>
		<p>There is a great deal of unnecessary suffering in our country. It is up to you to remove it and to replace pain with pleasure, fear with hope, horror with happiness. There is a general complaint that while the urban areas are better supplied with medical facilities, our rural areas have not been so fortunate. Attempts﻿ are being made to remove those disparities which render urban life a little more comfortable than life in the villages and in the initial stages, doctors have a great contribution to make towards the success of such attempts. The future of our countrymen is in your hands; yours is the most onerous responsibility; may you be worthy of the trust we repose in you.</p>
		<p>GRADUATES IN ENGINEERING, if doctors are the healers and preservers, you are the builders, Our country needs your services very badly; it is up to you to make all parts of the country habitable. You build bridges and roads that men may come together; you build houses that men may live, not merely exist. Build well; so build that what you build will endure; the foundations of what you build must be strong; the foundations of what you do must be equally firm. What better foundation than your conscience: No doubt there are temptations, but what is the use of that education that does not act as a shield against those forces that threaten one's moral integrity? Be good engineers and at the same time, be good men. The approval of your conscience is more important than the approval of your. official superiors!</p>
		<p>GRADUATES IN TEACHING, what do healthy bodies and beautiful houses avail if there be no beautiful minds to dwell in them? A great thinker has called the teacher, "the Gardener of Souls". Remember the place assigned to you by our ancient thinkers; the child was admonished to honour its mother and father and give equal respect to the guru. You are the real builders of society. Yours is an unostentatious service like the service of the roots of a mighty tree, which work unnoticed and without a break in order that blossoms and fruits may be available to others. The passer-by may pluck the flowers and reap the fruits without ever remembering﻿ the vital service rendered by the roots. Similarly you have to serve with absolute unselfishness.</p>
		<p>LADY GRADUATES of the year, there was a time when in every convocation address the speaker used to emphasis the value of education for women. Luckily the number of lady graduates is increasing every year and it is a very happy augury. Truly has it been said that when you educate a man, you educate an individual; but when you educate a lady, you educate the whole family. You have an important role to play in the life of the nation; for on total education de pends the prosperity and happiness of our country and you can accelerate the pace of education.</p>
		<p>Since I have spoken about the spread of education, I may be permitted to say a few words about the importance of Research and Teaching. Perhaps because our universities were modelled on the lines of the British universities, till very recently we did not attach as much importance to research as it deserves. The two main functions of a modern university have been defined as the diffusion of knowledge, that is, teaching and the advancement of knowledge, that is, "research." It should not be thought that one is superior or inferior to the other; rather they are complementary. But at present when India is occupying a prominent place in the comity of nations, we should concentrate as much on diffusion of knowledge in our country as on the advancement of the frontiers of knowledge. Scholarship has been aptly defined as 'knowing something of everything and everything of something.' A. liberal education is the foundation of specialisation. While we are proud of the fact that our universities have produced many educated men and women, it is high time that they also crated necessary facilities for the rise of scholars to whom other academic men all over the world﻿ would look up for illumination and inspiration. Living as we do in a scientific age, when the so-called fantastic dreams of ancient romancers and bards have become stupendous realities which, we hope, will be beneficial to mankind, it is essential that we too should develop our own laboratories and institutes of research where our young men can build on what they have learnt from others. It is true that the diffusion of knowledge depends upon the efforts of devoted and painstaking teachers but they will be far more effective if they complement their teaching with research. A true university makes full provision both for teaching and research.</p>
		<p>GRADUATES IN ARTS, SCIENCE AND ALLIED SUBJECTS AND COMMERCE, I come to you last not because you are less important but you form the largest bulk of graduates who have been admitted to various degrees today and therefore, correspondingly, your responsibility is higher. You have many more chances of working more closely with the masses and we expect a great deal more from you. I would say that if ever anyone is responsible for the formation of national character, you are the executants of that sacred duty. Great as our history has been reflection on the present state of affairs compels one to confess that we are unworthy of our history. We hear a great deal about Truth, Justice and Dharma and may it be that we vociferate most about what we lack? Judged by the platitudes that we repeat with every breath, we are the most pious people on the face of this earth but alas!, our experience of daily existence shows that we are not what we profess to be. However you who have the benefit of education can bridge the gulf between practice and profession. It has been wisely said that life is always a matter of choice and the choice is always between <em>shreyas</em> and <em>preyas</em>,﻿ between that which is good and that which is pleasant. That which is pleasant is not always good; that which is good, though probably unpleasant in the beginning, is ultimately pleasant. An upright soul, ever living according to the dictates of the conscience, always chooses that which is good.</p>
		<p>How many of us are inclined that way? It is easy for us to boast of our spiritual greatness but far better if others see it and tell us about it. All our troubles arise mainly because we choose that path which has the fewest difficulties; we circumvent obstacles and do not hesitate to jump the queue, unless called to order by a policeman! We make laws and when they are inconvenient we break them. This is a crooked path and no wonder we do not reach our distination. Theodore Roosevelt has put it correctly when he said, "To educate a man in mind and not in morals is to educate a menace to Society". A Moghul Emperor in his old age said to his sons: "I have lived a long time, but I have yet to see a man lost on the straight road!"</p>
		<p>I do not wish to dwell more upon this topic of our failings as a nation. All that I wish to say is that there is no reason why a country that produced a Buddha, A Shankara, a Basava, a Mahatma Gandhi, should not once again be great, provided at every step we ask ourselves whether anyone of them would approve of what we are doing. What they taught is there is our conscience; let us not be aware of it only when we preach to other people, let it inspire and guide everyone of our thoughts and deeds. What it suggests is always good and pleasant.</p>
		<p>I have taken a great deal of your time and I apologise for it. I have been carried away by the momentousness of the occasion and I have strained your patience too much. One word more, I have done. We Kannadigas have a tradition of greatness. With the Upanishadic Seers we believe that happiness is in greatness and not in littleness. This belief is manifested not only in the lives of our great ancestors but in the poetry that they wrote, the temples that they built, and the colossal statues they carved out. Even now the choice before you is between greatness and mediocrity. I hope your choice will fall on greatness. If we choose greatness we choose effort - effort which measures real achievement not in terms of luck but in terms of difficulties overcome, dangers faced and storms weathered and leads us on to deeds of imperishable glory.</p>
		<p>Jai Hind﻿﻿</p>
	</section>
	<section class="level1 numbered" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" id="id-007">
		<h1 class="level1-title" epub:type="title">Address delivered at the Convocation of the University of Mysore on Monday 10th December 1962 by Dr. D.S. KothariChairman, University Grants Commission, New Delhi</h1>
		<p><strong>YOUR HIGHNESS THE CHANCELLOR, MR. VICECHANCELLOR, FELLOWS AND GRADUATES OF THE MYSORE UNIVERSITY</strong></p>
		<p>It is a privilege and an honour to participate in this function of the year, and I am most grateful to the Chancellor and the Members of the University for inviting me to it. It was with no little concern and diffidence that I accepted your kind invitation. I was doubtful then, and more so now, about my adequacy, in substance and eloquence, to present a Convocation Address worthy of this great institution. And this feeling is sharpened when I think of the distinguished men who have addressed in the past Convocations of this University. All the same, it is always most stimulating and encouraging to meet a gathering of young students, teachers and scholars engaged in the pursuit of knowledge and discovery, and all that it implies. The cultivation and exploration of knowledge, if it is to lead to results of real value, has to be a continuing process, vigorous, courageous and relentless. We are assembled here because we share in common our dedication, to the best of our strength and ability, to knowledge and truth. We recognise that <em>education</em> - and it is a process which must continue throughout life and not end abruptly on graduation - is an integral and vital element of a worthwhile and purposeful life.</p>
		<p>To the young men and women who have received their <em>degrees</em> today I offer my warm felicitations. I wish﻿ them a happy and fruitful life, and express the confident hope that they will make a worthy contribution towards the progress and prosperity and security of our great country.</p>
		<p><strong>Today's Challenge</strong></p>
		<p>We live in unusual times, and this is true in more than one way. The thought which is uppermost in our minds today is of the challenge, unprovoked and sinister, to our security and freedom. That a great country with which we have been at peace for centuries, should have suddenly invaded our land and confronted us with naked force, casting aside all pretence of civilised behaviour, is not only a crime against us but a crime against humanity and decent behaviour. What we should do to make freedom endure? That is the most important question which faces us. In the stirring and noble words of our Prime Minister:</p>
		<p>"Every generation has to fight anew the battle for freedom. Otherwise we grow soft and forget the basic values of life and freedom and tend to lose their essence. My generation had the inestimable privilege of serving under Gandhiji in the struggle for our freedom."</p>
		<p>Now a chance comes to all of us and, more especially, to the young to test their mettle and their patriotism. Already the wonderful response of the people of the country has shown our basic strength. Let this not be frittered away in petty things. Let this challenge be considered an opportunity and be met with strength, dignity, discipline and fortitude, so that out of this trial a new and better India might be fashioned by the efforts and sacrifices of her children.</p>
		<p>There are many ways of serving this cause, and many more will be pointed out to us from time to time.﻿ Meanwhile, I should like all our University students to join the National Cadet Corps or the N.C.C. Rifles to get some elementary training. It may be necessary to have higher training later on. Let us live a life of some austerity and save as much as we can, so that our savings might help in increasing the nation's effort.</p>
		<p>Let us continue our education and training and prepare for the time when more is required of us."</p>
		<p><strong>Problems facing Universities</strong></p>
		<p>In the modern world, characterized by its increasing dependence on science and technology the universities hold a unique place. Their role and influence in determining the pace of progress (material, cultural and even spiritual) can be, and in most cases is, both powerful and profound. Perhaps, there is no other institution or agency which in this respect is of comparable importance. It is the mission of universities to provide society with good and competent men and women trained in arts, science and technology, medicine, agriculture and other professions; and who, above all, are imbued with a sense of altruism, open-mindedness and dedication. "A university stands for humanism, for tolerance, for reason, for the adventure of ideas and for the search for truth. It stands for the onward march of the human race towards even higher objectives. If the universities discharge their duties adequately, then it is well with the nation and the people."</p>
		<p>It is common knowledge that in education many of the fundamental problems with which we are concerned also face most countries, including the more advanced ones. Almost everywhere there is a marked increase in student enrolment to meet the requirements of expanding economy and other national needs; there﻿ is an acute shortage of teachers partly because of the increasing drift to industry and other avenues of public and private employment, and the shortage is further accentuated because of rising student numbers; there is much serious concern that in many places there is too much 'teaching' but relatively too little of 'good teaching' and far too little of good research; there is the problem of specialization and insulation, and its relation to inter-disciplinary communication and the needs of liberal education, there is too much fragmentation and compartmentalization of knowledge, and not only are there wide gulfs separating humanities, science and technology, but the bridges are far too few and even these are often unused; and there is the important and pressing problem of collaboration and mobility of staff between universities, national laboratories, industry and also Government scientific departments. There is also the complex and far-reaching problem of university autonomy, of relative freedom from Government control and outside interference, of freedom from internal strife and bigotry, and this can take many different and ugly forms.</p>
		<p><strong>Raise quality and reduce wastage</strong></p>
		<p>In a sense the central problem facing us, which is basic to everything else in the field of higher education (in fact, all education), is to <em>raise quality and reduce wastage,</em> particularly that resulting from largescale failures, of the order of fifty percent, at examinations. To progress in this direction is most important that we take urgent and energetic steps to raise the quality and strength of the teaching staff, to make available good books at reasonable prices within the easy reach of our students, and to provide 'reading﻿ seats' in libraries and 'day-students homes' for a substantial proportion of our students. And in whatever we do, the student must always be at the centre of our attention.</p>
		<p>'The quality of a university is always in direct proportion to the quality of its teachers." To attract and retain in the teaching profession men of outstanding ability and character reasonable salaries are important, but by no means everything. Opportunities of professional advancement, possibility of migration from college to university, and between universities, recognition by society of the value and importance of the teaching profession, would go a long way in attracting to the profession reasonable proportion of men and women of high intellectual ability and character. Generally, it should be made possible for a teacher to carry with him his provident fund, leave and other benefits in moving from one university or college to another.</p>
		<p><strong>University is a Society dedicated to learning</strong></p>
		<p>A university is, above all, a society of students and teachers dedicated to the pursuit of learning, accumulation of knowledge, its transmission to succeeding generations and exploration of new knowledge. A good teacher is a 'continuing student.' A university combines education and discovery, teaching and research. In this combination lies its peculiar strength. The experience of over a century beginning first with the German Universities has conclusively demonstrated that teaching and research flourish best in combination and they both wither in isolation. The best of either is achieved in an environment where both are cultivated.</p>
		<p>﻿ As we all recognize it is of the utmost importance to ensure that the highest standards are observed in the recruitment of teaching staff. Appointments should be made on the basis of academic merit and suitability, uninfluenced by considerations of caste, regionalism and other extraneous factors. At one of its recent meetings, the University Grants Commission after carefully considering the matter observed that "appointments of teachers in the Universities should be governed by their suitability for the work to be done by them (that is on the basis of academic achievement, personality and character), and no consideration should be given to factors such as caste, creed and place of birth."</p>
		<p>Every possible encouragement should be given to young men of ability to join the teaching profession. If a person has outstanding work to his credit, young age should be no disqualification for appointment to University Chairs. In fact, other things being equal, it is in the interest of university education that young men still in the most creative period of their life be appointed to high academic posts.</p>
		<p><strong>Feed-back-process</strong></p>
		<p>Education provides a good illustration of the 'feedback' process. If things are so organised that every year an appreciable number of our best young men join as teachers in our schools and colleges we shall have continually escalating improvement in education. On the contrary, if we plough back into our schools and colleges young men with less than average ability, then standards would rapidly (exponentially) go down as years roll by. The key to a continuous improvement of standards is to feedback into the teaching profession every year a reasonable proportion of the best young men turned out by the universities.</p>
		<p><strong>Student admissions</strong></p>
		<p>It is hardly necessary to say that in universities and colleges admission of students should be on the basis of merit - and this may not be narrowly interpreted in the sense of percentage of marks secured at examinations - uninfluenced by considerations not in keeping with the essential character and ethos of a university. Apart from other things, this is necessary if we are to make the best use of our very limited facilities and resources for higher education. As the National Integration Council has observed: "Admissions to the universities should not be denied on considerations of place of birth, residence, caste or creed (except in so far as any reservations have been provided under the Constitution)."</p>
		<p><strong>Academic Standards are international</strong></p>
		<p>In the field of university education, specially at the postgraduate level and research, we must aim at the highest international standards. Nothing less is or can be worthwhile. There are no, and can be no, local or regional standards as academic standards by their very nature are international. International standards in scholarship and research are not easy to achieve, but even in underdeveloped countries one sometimes comes across buildings and equipment which compares with the best anywhere. This is only a reflection of the simple fact that whereas in the first case we have to spend thought, in the second case it primarily a question of spending money. Money is relatively much easier to spend than thought, specially when it is someone else's money.﻿</p>
		<p>Knowledge, as has been aptly said, is an 'international commodity.' The universities share a common stock of knowledge and a common attitude towards its cultivation and progress. They share in and contribute towards creating a common brotherhood of learning and scholarship. This is a thing of special value and significance in the "age of the atom" and ballistic missiles.</p>
		<p><strong>The Unprecedented peril</strong></p>
		<p>The mention of atomic age immediately calls to our minds the unprecedented peril, both in depth and extent, which faces mankind today in the shape of a possible misuse, deliberate or accidental, of nuclear knowledge. Indeed, nothing less than civilisation and human survival are at stake. If this simple fact is not as widely apparent and forcefully realised as it ought to be, it is largely because there has not been enough serious and sustained effort to inform us about it. As Professor Le Gros Clark observed in his Presidential Address to the British Association last year (1961): "For, let us not deceive ourselves, the frightening question is now beginning to present itself whether the civilisation which mankind has slowly and laboriously built up over a period of many thousands of years can avoid disastrous dissolution as the result of uncontrollable (or, at any rate, uncontrolled) struggles for political power or economic superiority, and, indeed, whether the human species can avoid at least partial extinction by the misapplication of its own ingenuity."</p>
		<p>The two big power-blocks possess nuclear weapons totalling many thousands of megatons (TNT equivalent) in constant readiness for immediate deployment, within hours to minutes, largely against city-targets and﻿ population centers. (At the present level of nuclear stalemate 'military targets' are hard or difficult to locate, and for that reason lies 'paying than city targets.) This 'balance of terror' with hideous weapons of colossal mass-destruction hanging over mankind creates a state which is too precarious and too unstable to exclude the possibility - in fact, much more than mere possibility - of the occurrence of some unpredictable 'spontaneous event' or accidental happening, a sort of political <em>Brownian motion,</em> escalating into a full-scale nuclear war. Given enough time, say ten years, but some think this is too long, the situation is almost certain to explode. It is hardly necessary to stress this point with the Cuban crisis still fresh in men's minds. The crisis in this case was resolved happily because of exceptional courage, statesmanship, and mankind's good fortune.</p>
		<p>It is an interesting and significant thing that statistical analysis, carried out by L.F. Richardson, of the distribution of wars through history seems to fit in with the laws of chance (Poisson distribution):<em> Chance and not wills of men seem to govern the incidence of wars.</em></p>
		<p><strong>Knowledge and Wisdom</strong></p>
		<p>The balance of terror has to be replaced by common-links of co-operation and common endeavour in the pursuit of high ideals and goals. The present unfortunate and tragic situation is essentially a reflection of the widening gap between rapidly expanding scientific and technical knowledge on the one had and 'political wisdom', statesmanship and ethical values on the other. Science and spirituality or 'atom' and nonviolence are not in balance. It is this imbalance which mankind must seek to redress.﻿</p>
		<p>The universities could make and ought to make a definite contribution in correcting the imbalance between science, technology and the humanities. They also have a role, no doubt very modest but nonetheless significant, in helping to bridge the gap between knowledge and wisdom. What the universities can do towards these great ends will be in direct proportion to their being and becoming, in pursuit of their true ideals, places where freedom to enquire boldly and readiness to doubt courageously, where knowledge and understanding and true humility go together and grow from more to more, and where the highest standards of scholarship, integrity and conduct are expected and respected and cultivated.</p>
	</section>
	<section class="level1 numbered" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" id="id-008">
		<h1 class="level1-title" epub:type="title">﻿ Address delivered at the Convocation of the University of Mysore on Monday 29th November 1965 by Jayaprakash Narayan</h1>
		<p><strong>MR. CHANCELLOR AND GRADUATES OF THE YEAR,</strong></p>
		<p>There is no other explanation for my being here to perform this august function than the kindness and affection of your Vice-Chancellor. I am no educationist nor have I any other qualifications to fill the role I have so kindly been asked to play. I am therefore the more beholden to the Vice-Chancellor and the University for this honour done to me.</p>
		<p>At the very outset I should like to felicitate all those of you who have been convoked to receive your degrees. Particularly, should I congratulate the young graduates, both men and women, who are about to enter the portals, so to say, of what was known in ancient India as the <em>grihastashram.</em> Until now, you had noore or less followed a course laid down by others, with few occasions when you had to make your own choice. But from this day onwards, the decisions that will vitally affect your future will have mostly to be made by yourselves. One of the tests of good education is that is should enable the young while entering adulthood to choose their life's course wisely.</p>
		<p>In our country where there is all round scarcity, you do not have much freedom of choice, and you will meet fierce competition in making your first choices. As a result many of you may have to be content only with second choices. But that need not dishearten you. Most men and women throughout the world have to be satisfied with second choices only and they do not seem to have been the worse for it.</p>
		<p>The post-graduates among you have already made your decision, or most of you have done so. Therefore, let me wish you God speed in whatever you have chosen to do and let me hope that the post-graduate work that you have just completed will equip you better for your chosen career.</p>
		<p>I should like in this connection to speak of a choice that everyone of you will have to make in your life, irrespective of your particular discipline and degree. While the aim of education is to impart knowledge and training, it is universally agreed that its no lesser aim is to make man human, i.e., a better human being. This is a most difficult task, and no sure system of education has yet been evolved to accomplish if much has been done to understand and change man's environment, but so little to understand and change man himself. In our ancient days it was the other way round. The environment was considered unreal, whose understanding and transformation were necessary, but only to satisfy man's physical wants. But the reality was man himself and he was bidden to understand who and what he was. That was considered to be at once the pursuit of knowledge as well as of happiness. Unfortunately, what remains of that culture of man or self-culture is conventionalised sterile verbalism combined with certain outward bodily practices that between them fail to achieve either liberation and vision of reality or, what is the same thing or should be, the ascent of man to true humanity.</p>
		<p>In the past few years, some attempt has been made in the East and West to build a bridge between inner and outer knowledge so as to achieve a synthesis of understanding that could cut across the dualism that truly lies at the heart of all monistic philosophies (that reach their conclusion merely by asserting the reality﻿ either of "matter" or of "spirit") and lead to the evolution of a knowledge that would deny neither the material nor the spiritual and penetrate to their true unity.</p>
		<p>When that happens, education might come into its own and be able to perform its true function of making both man and his environment, so that the outward and inward activities of man might come to be correlated and orientated to a common goal. At present, there is no logical correlation between the two, and man is asked by religion to perform the task by a mere act of faith. For instance, the sciences of engineering or business or politics have no inner relationship with the other science, the science of the "spirit", except in so far as religion, more by its authority than by understanding, is able to establish. In rare cases, a "spiritually advanced" person belonging to these or other professions might achieve a synthesis between the two in his individual experience. Such a person, however, would be considered today as an eccentric.</p>
		<p>Gandhiji emphasised the need to spiritualise politics, but he failed rationally to establish any logical connection between spirituality and politics. Education in politics and education in spirituality even in Gandhi's India are conceived of as two separate disciplines with no logical inter-relationship. No one knows what would be the shape of "spiritualised" politics and how it could be practised in this age of which the most outstanding and distinctive feature is the Nation-State, one of the most evil institutions, to my mind, that humanity has thrown up in the course of its long history.</p>
		<p>Such indeed is the state of educated opinion in this country - I am sure it is the same elsewhere - that any practitioner of politics who attempts to follow the dictates of his spiritual education would be considered impractical and unfit for the profession. This is not﻿ to say that every clever politician does not affect a moral, even spiritual, pose. But in that case morality or spirituality differs from politician to politician and from nation to nation. The divorce of politics from spirituality is the more astonishing, because as Richard Crossman has pointed out, all political decisions are in the ultimate analysis, decisions involving ethical judgement. This state of split in the human personality will continue until the contradiction between "moral men and immoral society" is removed by a unitive body of knowledge, and education comes to be based on that knowledge. As long as the "other-worldliness" of morality and spirituality persists their divorce from the practical affairs of society will also persist to the great detriment of human good and growth.</p>
		<p>The disciplines that you have learnt here have each their own strict internal morality. No science, physical or social, can grow if it does not adhere to strict truth and refined ways of testing the truth, but when that discipline is externalised, i.e., when it comes to be applied to society, the internal morality breaks down. In that sense, science becomes amoral to be utilised both for moral and immoral purposes. It is here that the heart of the problem of science and society lies. It cannot be demonstrated today that an immoral application of science would materially, and not only morally, harm the society or group indulging in it. This cannot be done unless (among other things) it becomes possible to predict the future in a scientific manner. If a correlation could be established, over a sufficiently long period of time, between the morality or otherwise of social action and the material result (in terms of economic, physical or other effects) for the society or group practising it, concern for morality might become imperative for the "immoral society" of today. This﻿ would appear as a surrender to "materialism", but is actually the very reverse of it. It is, or would be, a rational way of uniting the moral and the material and removing the apparent dichotomy that exists between them today. At present, the test of morality is in terms of morality itself, with no reference to things material. The kind of evolution of knowledge that I am envisaging would correlate the moral and material in a rational manner and remove the stigma that attaches in moralist eyes to things material; and the disregard, if not contempt, in which morality is held by the "materialist".</p>
		<p>In the absence of such unitive knowledge and education, the question that the young men and women who have just completed their formal education and are on the threshold of their career have to face is how in their individual lives they will reconcile their outward activities with whatever intimations they might have received about things spiritual and ethical. This is the choice of which I spoke earlier which faces you: will you become split personalities or will you endeavour to integrate yourselves? That is to say, will you, on the one hand try to be good (as you understand goodness) in your personal life and, in your public life behave as if ethical considerations were irrelevant to it. May I take this opportunity to offer you an advice on this point? While I cannot prove it according to the accepted methods of science I am sure that you will be a better and more efficient economist, lawyer, doctor, engineer, civil servant, teacher, politician or anything else that you are going to be, if you scrupulously tried to practise in your public life the same morality that you may accept for your private life. Even though I cannot prove it to you, yet I would earnestly say that if you did that, you will have not only contributed much more to the social good than you would have otherwise, served your﻿ country truly and helped to make it honoured throughout the world, but you would also have benefited personally, in that you would be happier and more at peace with yourself, you would be sound in body and mind, and in the long run you and your children would also be better off materially. Please remember that man does not live only to eat, but has finer and deeper hungers to satisfy. Therefore, try to integrate your outward life with the inner, so that your life becomes fuller and meaningful to you as well as to those among whom you live and work. In the course of your life, grave problems will face you, and you may find yourself torn between contrary pulls. You do not have to go far to seek guidance at these moments of trail and anxiety. There is within each of you a small still voice: withdraw yourself inward, be calm and carefully listen to that voice. No one else can be your better guide.</p>
		<p>Having almost involuntarily, as it were, made this excursion into a field about which I am not really qualified to talk, I wondered what subject I should speak to you about on this occasion. I thought it would be natural for me, my <em>swadharma</em> so to say, that I speak to you about a question that has concerned me in the past few years, and still concerns me most, namely the question of peace. You will agree that it is a question that is also one of our country's most anxious and urgent concerns at the present moment. As you know, peace also is universally regarded as the most vital problem of this thermo-nuclear age.</p>
		<p>So it will be peace of which I shall talk to you, and I hope it will not be considered to be out of place here. Indeed, in my view, universities are the most appropriate places where the question of peace should be earnestly studied and discussed. As you doubtless know, there are several universities in Europe and﻿ America where separate peace research institutes have been established. And one of the heartening events that is taking place in the U.S. is the involvement on a fairly large scale of students and teachers alike in peace protests, marches and "teach-ins". The world is genuinely hungry for peace, because in view of the terrible nature of thermo-nuclear weapons it lives in genuine fear of war. Yet, is it not strange that while billions are spent annually on research in the tools of war, governments hardly think it worthwhile to invest even an infinitesimal part on peace research? Will it be too wild to hope that these remarks will stimulate interest in this subject among the social and physical scientists of this university, leading eventually to the establishment of a faculty or institute dedicated to research in peace and resolution of conflicts?</p>
		<p>When the youth of the country happens presently to be so wrapped up in thoughts of war and of heroism in the battle-field, I cannot say how the subject of peace will appear to the young men and young women assembled here. But let me say this to you, my young friends, the question of war or peace is of far greater concern to you and your generation than to me and my generation. Your future, which is also the future of the country, is before you, and how you answer the question will make or mar that future and the destiny of this country.</p>
		<p>I am concerned with peace not because I am a "Gandhian". Gandhiji himself had said emphatically that there was no such thing as Gandhism: he had founded no ism or sect, or even a school of thought. Gandhiji was a seeker after truth, and, as such a person must do, he went on experimenting, learning, changing till the end. In the so called Gandhian circles the word Gandhism, or Gandhivad, is never used: what is spoken﻿ of is Gandhi Vichar (the thought of Gandhi) or just <em>Sarvodaya,</em> which has the quality of not being tied to any personality. Sarvodaya is a growing body of thought and action, and has no fundamentalism whatever, except that it is concerned with truth - particularly, truth about man and society.</p>
		<p>Mahatma Gandhi believed in certain values of life that he thought were founded in the truth as he saw it. It is not very long ago that Gandhiji was assassinated, but already some of our political leaders who are privileged to speak for the people in the Lok Sabha have begun to look upon the concern for Gandhian values as an "occupational disease" and the pursuit of peace as something of a national crime. This is only a symptom of the growing war-mindedness that should be a matter of anxiety not only for those called Gandhians but also for all those that are concerned about peace.</p>
		<p>I am concerned with peace because I am a human being and not because I belong to any sect or have any obsession. Earlier I pointed out how difficult it is for man to be human. We are everything else: Indian, Hindu, Muslim, Christian, Brahmin, Lingayat, artist, scholar, scientist, socialist, communist, before we are human. To be human is not to deny religion or science or nationality or ideology, but it is to penetrate beyond these in essential wrappings to the essential man. To be human is to regard all humans as brothers, to be a citizen of the world, to wish every human being life, liberty and happiness. To be human is to reject oppression and injustice, to detest war and to seek its moral substitute. To the extent man advances from war towards peace, to that extent and no more can he claim to be civilised, no matter what religion or ideology he﻿ professes, how advanced he is in science and technology, in prosperity and so-called culture and sophistication.</p>
		<p>Further, peace concerns me because I am convinced that war solves no problems. I know, as every sensible person should know, that neither the India-Pak conflict, nor the India-China conflict can ever be settled by war. I know, as you know, that even after the most devastating war, peace has to be made. Even that noble epic about the great ancient battle, the Mahabharata ends with the magnificent Shanti Parva. War, my dear friends is not the permanent condition of man: that is peace.</p>
		<p>I know further that war is a pestilence that will destroy my country, as it will destroy Pakistan, as it will destroy China. We all desperately need peace in order to grow and develop, to be able to feed and clothe ourselves, to educate our children, to fight disease and premature death.</p>
		<p>To work for peace is not cowardice. Quite to the contrary, it requires the highest type of moral and physical courage. It also requires all the intelligence and resource that man can command. History shows that it is easy to make war, but most difficult to make peace. Because of these convictions, I consider it a matter of great good fortune for this country and a divine boon that we are privileged to have at this juncture such a wise, courageous and humane President as Dr. Radhakrishnan, who from his high office has been reminding us repeatedly in the past months of these truths. May we hearken to his words and refuse to be carried away by the success euphoria that has overtaken us!</p>
		<p>There are two levels at which the problem of peace is being tackled today: the political and the human. The UN functions at the political level, and most﻿ Governments that are working for peace do the same, as well as most of the peace movements. On the other hand, pacifists in the West and Gandhians in this country are working on the human level. These levels, however, are not exclusive of each other and there is a good deal of mixing up of the two. One distinction between these levels is that while all those working at the political level may not subscribe to non-violence as a way of individual and social life, the latter group of peace-workers invariably do. Those working at the political level are necessarily multi-lateralists; in other words, they attempt to bring about multi-lateral agreement between powers to restrict armaments and to bind themselves to peaceful ways of settling disputes. On the other hand, those working on the other level are basically unilateralists, but they are also concerned with multilateral efforts: in that manner they are often active at both levels. Gandhiji was a fine example of peaceworker, active both at the political and human levels. It should be pointed out here that such activity often leads to confusion and misunderstanding, because what is done at the political level sometimes does not square up with the human approach to peace.</p>
		<p>I propose to look at the problem of peace at both levels and not in the abstract but as it concretely faces this country. At the political level Jawaharlal Nehru was the architect of India's foreign policy, and it is basically his policy that is still pursued. The chief characteristic of that policy was non-alignment. Originally it was conceived as a means by which India could exercise independence in international affairs, and also as an instrument of world peace. But the way it was applied by him to concrete issues it turned out to be a shield for a policy of weakness that rather encouraged aggression. The Government seemed afraid to give offence to the great powers, or rather two of them. Upto﻿ a degree it took the US for granted, but leaned over Backwards in order to please Russia and China.</p>
		<p>Owing to India's non-violent struggle for independence and Mahatma Gandhi's unique leadership and personality, India was looked upon as an unusual nation which was expected to give a lead in reconstructing a world without war. Jawaharlalji was taken as a symbol of that noble policy. Naturally, his moral authority and that of India stood very high at the United Nations and among the Governments of the world. This was an asset worth many divisions of armed forces and millions of dollars of aid.</p>
		<p>But at the very start we gave the world a jolt on account of our Kashmir policy. True, our case was not understood well and many nations laboured under the misapprehension that we had deprived Pakistan by force of something that in justice belonged to her. This was obviously a complete misunderstanding. Pakistan herself had never laid claim to Kashmir; her plea having always been - as it still is - that the future of Kashmir should be decided according to the wishes of the people. They have no doubt hoped that the people, given a chance, would opt for Pakistan, which is more wishful thinking than any thing else. But after all had been done to put the case of India straight even sympathetic quarters were left with a question mark namely, when Sheikh Abdulla continued to remain in detention or prison, could India truthfully claim that such things as adoption of the Kashmir Constitution by the State Assembly or the much talked of general elections under that Constitution really expressed the will of the people? On that point we were never able to convince even the well-disposed towards us to accept our plea. It is this aspect of the matter, rather than the posturings and propaganda of Pakistan that has corroded our moral position and that still continues to do so.﻿</p>
		<p>Then came three fateful decisions that did much to destroy this country's moral image and its claim to be dedicated to the cause of peace. The first was in regard to Hungary. Much has been said and written about that regrettable lapse, and I need hardly do more than recall it in order to illustrate my criticism of nonalignment. Jawaharlalji's Hungary policy was as well an encouragement to aggression as a shield of pusillanimity. Albert Camus's words that he spoke to me at Paris at the home of Nicolas Nabokov still keep ringing in my ears: "we all felt terribly let down by Mr. Nehru who had been our hero". Later on, no doubt, Panditji acknowledged that what had happened in Hungary was not the handiwork of Western imperialism but a genuine national uprising. But in politics, time is of the essence.</p>
		<p>The other case was in regard to Tibet. As the Tibet question is still a live one, I crave your indulgence to allow me to deal with it at a little greater length. Any dispassionate study of Sino-Tibetan relations and of the history of Tibet will show that Tibet was never a part of the Chinese State or a region of China, but it always had been an independent kingdom, the Dalai Lama, having had during some periods a personal relationship of priest and disciple with the Chinese Emperor, in token whereof a representative of Peking was sometimes stationed at Lhasa, more as Ambassador than Viceroy. Even such a high priest of imperialism as Lord Curzon held that Chinese suzerainty over Tibet was a "constitutional fiction" which was maintained for the sake of "convenience to both parties". From 1911 onwards, Tibet had been completely independent with no Chinese representative at Lhasa or a single Chinese soldier on Tibetan soil.﻿</p>
		<p>Inspite of these undisputed facts of history, in order partly to win China's friendship and partly out of the naive hope that the Chinese Communist regime would respect the autonomy of Tibet, Jawaharlalji, so to say, served Tibet on a platter to Peking. The most tragic aspect of this tragic story was that the Western powers, who otherwise would have taken a different stand, in their anxiety not to embarrass India fell in with her policy, which paved the way for undeterred Chinese aggression.</p>
		<p>The question is often raised if India could have done anything to save Tibet. I am sure it could have. It may be recalled that inspite of her isolation, Tibet had succeeded in having the question of Chinese aggression raised in the United Nations Assembly in November 1950 through EL Salavador. But when the UN General Committee took up consideration of the resolution, it was withdrawn by the mover on the initiative of the Indian representative the Jam Sahib who was joined by Mr. Kenneth Younger, the British representative. This was done because India had assured the Committee that the affair was expected to be peacefully settled. Had India supported the resolution there is no doubt that the Assembly would have passed it. China happened at that moment to be involved in the Korean affair and it has been suggested by an Oxford Sinologist that even a small supply of arms would have been sufficient to stop China at that time, giving Tibet a much needed respite during which to prepare herself to meet China. Incidentally, if that resolution had been passed, Tibet would have come to be recognised as a sovereign independent state. Those who are acquainted with time-old Sino-Russian rivalry in Mongolia, Sinkiang and Tibet would agree that whatever might have been the Russians' outward pose,﻿ at heart they would have been happy, even though that was still the time of Sino-Russian amity. Jawaharlalji was terribly afraid of the cold war coming to his doors, but in the process he himself opened the doors to the hot war from the North.</p>
		<p>All this is not just to cry over spilt milk. This is still a live question and India owes it to herself to correct her stand. It is not enough to condemn violation of human rights by China in Tibet, as India now seems prepared to do. The UN has twice passed resolutions to that effect. A similar resolution passed for the third time would be a futile exercise. It is time India gave deeper thought to this question, which also includes the question of the Dalai Lama's political status. An ancillary to the Tibet question is reconsideration of the status of Bhutan and Sikkim and the possibility of a Confederation.</p>
		<p>The question is asked, will not a drastic change in our policy towards Tibet offend the Chinese, provoke them to attack us, and destroy all prospects of conciliation? This question is based on an utter misappreciation of the nature of the Chinese regime. In other contexts our Government protests much against appeasement on the ground that it leads to further excitation of greed. But in the case of China, who had sized us up rather early, even the present of Tibet proved to be insufficient to satisfy her appetite. The exposure of our weakness only encouraged her. Here is one clear case where international morality and the national interest coincide. China would understand strength of character as much as armed strength. But if the latter strength went with weakness of character and pusillanimity in the face of the over-rated power of China, she will continue to push us about.﻿</p>
		<p>This is not to advocate a belligerent policy. It is in a dialectical sense a genuine policy of peace. There will be nothing inconsistent if along with such a revised Tibet policy, we also made, through powers that are common friends, overtures to China for a peaceful settlement of the border dispute pending the final disposition of the Tibet question. In that event, it would be appropriate to take into account China's genuine interests in the area.</p>
		<p>The third incident which was of a different kind, that cost us international regard, particularly in the West and tarnished India's image as a peace loving country, was the military action in Goa against the Portuguese. As a member of the United Nations we were committed not to use armed force against another member, and we broke that commitment in a manner that came as a shock. Goa was bound to be united with India sooner or later, but the whole affair should have been handled differently and the anti-colonial force in the United Nations should have been so invoked as not to appear to violate the UN's charter, at present the only sheet-anchor of world peace.</p>
		<p>From what I have been saying, it might appear that I am taking too simple a view of foreign policy in pleading that it be based on moral principles. Critics would say that the only standard by which foreign policy should be judged is that of national interest. That, however, is not such a profound observation as it is made out to be. No one can expect the modern Nation-State to do anything consciously against the national interest in order merely to satisfy ethical imperatives. But first of all, I deny that adherence to the morally right path can lead a nation to harm. Secondly, what is in the national interest is not an easy question to decide, and different political leaders and﻿ parties are commonly found to interpret national interest differently. In the instances under discussion, events have shown that what was thought to have been in the national interest really turned out to be against it. This country and its great leader not only lost their moral position and authority, which in itself was an incalculable loss; the forces of peace were weakened; and, in the case of the Tibet policy, the country emerged as a loser.</p>
		<p>There has been in recent months a national debate, both inside and outside Parliament, on the policy of non-alignment. Different persons have attacked that policy from different points of view. It seems to me that both the attack and defence have been unreal. The term non-alignment has now become meaningless, and the only justification of using it can be its evocative value. When there did happen to be two fairly defined and mutually hostile blocs, this term had a meaning, and it did signify a policy of peace. But there are no longer two blocs: there are several. The trend indeed seems to be for every country to assert its independence in foreign relations. The main reason for the loosening of blocs has been the emergence of national communism, owing largely to growing internal stability and industrialisation. On account of this development there is greater scope now for flexibility in foreign policy and exercise of independent decision. Among other things this opportunity may be utilised to develop closer relationship with powers whom we have so far neglected, such as Japan and France.</p>
		<p>This new world situation would require greater sophistication than before, but if the two considerations of peace and justice are kept in view, our foreign policy should not only give us strength, but also strengthen﻿ the fabric of world peace within and without the United Nations.</p>
		<p>If this policy were to be applied, for instance, to Viet Nam - an issue of the gravest significance - this country could make an important contribution to world peace. The US claims to be fighting there the battle of freedom and democracy. The fact, however, appears to be just the contrary. It seems to be certain that if a free election were held in South Viet Nam, the Viet Cong would win overwhelmingly. What justification can the US have then to be fighting the Viet Cong in the name of freedom and democracy? It is said that the Viet Cong are communists. That is not certain but even supposing it to be so, if the people anywhere wish freely to choose communism, what right has any one to stop them from doing so? Even if South Viet Nam under Viet Cong, were to unite with North Viet Nam under Ho Chi Minh's presidentship, I do not consider it to be such a calamity for Asia or the world. I do not think united Viet Nam would become China's satellite; and one more nationalist communist state can do no harm. On the other hand, present American policy is doing incalculable damage, and is perhaps pushing North Viet Nam more and more into China's lap. Ironically, it seems to be Russia's influence that is thwarting that unintended consequence of American policy !</p>
		<p>In regard to Indo-Pak conflict, as you may know, I, along with other Gandhians, have upheld Government's action. We have done that because we have been convinced that in the face of Pakistan's aggression - surreptitious at first through armed infiltration, then open and massive across the international border in Chhamb - the Government had no other alternative left for the defence of the country.</p>
		<p>Having said that, I must add in all humility that I am not sure that earlier on, every effort had been made by the Government to promote a peaceful settlement of the disputes with Pakistan. It is being made out now as if it had always been Pakistan that was to blame for keeping the dispute alive. This may suit the mood of euphoria that has caught the people after many years of depression, but it certainly is not the truth. Not a few times it had been India that was responsible for aggravating the situation. Even if we take only the recent most period of this tragic affair, I for one am not persuaded that it was necessary to legislate for further constitutional integration of the State with the Union. That is not the same thing as saying that had that step not been taken, Pakistan would not have gone ahead with her aggressive designs. But the point I am making is that it was not a step that was calculated to facilitate amicable settlement. In point of fact, it was taken by Pakistan as banging the door of friendly negotiation in her face.</p>
		<p>It is relevant to recall that until that time the stand of our government had still happened to be that we were prepared and desirous for an "honourable and equitable" settlement of the Kashmir issue with Pakistan. It is difficult to believe that this was not one of the points discussed between the Prime Minister and President Ayub Khan at their Karachi meting. Government's stand is changed now, and I am wholly with the Government there, as I had argued myself in a press statement issued early in the course of the fighting. No other stand could have been right when Pakistan was demonstrably determined to take by force what it could not have by diplomacy - particularly when she has no legal or moral right to what she wants to grab.</p>
		<p>May I sound another critical note at this point? While I agree that Pakistan by her repeated acts of aggression has forfeited what right she had earned from historical circumstances to have a say about the future of Kashmir, I would consider it politically to be a dangerous delusion and morally wrong to believe that there is no further problem left to tackle in Kashmir. There still is a problem and that is between the Government of India and the people of Kashmir. That problem can never be solved by treating it merely as one of law and order. It is a problem of a political nature, and I hope that when the cease-fire has been stabilised, the armed forces of both sides withdrawn and the infiltrators called back or ejected, there will be enough statesmanship found in the present leaders of the Jammu and Kashmir Government and other Kashmiri leaders, most of whom are regrettably in prison now, and the Government of India to meet around the table and evolve a mutually acceptable solution.</p>
		<p>Speaking of solutions, statesmanship would require of both sides that the limitations imposed by recent events were taken into consideration. Until a few months ago, I had been of the view that a possible solution might have been an autonomous, neutralised and demilitarised State of the valley. Lord Atlee has recently suggested an independent Kashmir as a likely solution. There is deep respect and affection for Lord Atlee in this country. But in view of Pakistan's proven aim any how to annex Kashmir - proven by her repeated aggression there is not the least possibility of either an autonomous or independent Kashmir being allowed by Pakistan to survive, even if she were initially to accept it. In this situation it would be foolish for any Kashmiri leader to nurse any hope on those lines. No solution﻿ has any chance of succeeding that involves de-accession of the State, or of any part of it, from India. I cannot conceive of any power on earth being able to transfer Kashmir from India to Pakistan, nor can I see how Pakistan can ever take the valley by force from India.</p>
		<p>So, here are the limitations within which an amicable and just solution has to be found. The Kashmiri leaders, on their side, will have to accept that Kashmir must continue to be a part of India; the Government of India, on its side, must understand that repression cannot succeed in forcing upon the people a Pattern of Government and relationship with the Union that is not acceptable to them. If both sides were conscious of the limits set for them by circumstances, the Kashmir issue might yet have a happy ending, closing the chapter for ever for all the world.</p>
		<p>I shall conclude with a brief consideration of this problem from the human stand-point. Contrary to the general rejoicing in the country over the comparative successes in the recent fighting, the reaction of the Gandhians was, in the first place, one of pain at the killing and the mounting feelings of hate and enmity; and, in the second place, one of helplessness in either preventing or stopping the fighting. When the fighting started, a few of us debated amongst ourselves different possibilities of non-violent intervention in the conflict. But every possibility that suggested itself appeared to be so futile a gesture, even from the point of view of educating the people in non-violent resistance to war, that we thought it better to "stand and wait". That, however, only aggravated our feeling of helplessness to do anything effective in the present.</p>
		<p>In cases of internal outbreaks of violence, the Gandhians have never felt helpless. In some instances, their intervention has been found to have been effective﻿ enough to prevent the impending outbreak; in others, it has helped to shorten the duration of the incident or to mitigate its consequences. But in cases of outbreaks of international violence involving this country, we have been little more than helpless spectators. We have no doubt tried to temper what the ancients called, <em>yudha-jwar,</em> or the fever of war, and counselled against bolting the door to reconciliation. So was it at the time of the Goa affair, so was it again in 1962 when China attacked in mass across our borders, and so has it been since August 5 this year.</p>
		<p>All this should be a matter of deep concern not only for a handful of Gandhians, but also for this country that honours Mahatma Gandhi as Father of the Nation, and that won its freedom under his leadership through non-violence. Can it not be possible, we should all ask, to preserve that freedom and our honour and our territorial integrity also through non-violence? Though that question is for the whole nation to ponder, it is particularly and urgently pertinent for Gandhians.</p>
		<p>Pacifists in the West and elsewhere have wondered at our in action. As you know, they themselves have borne, and are bearing witness, to their nonviolent faith during their countries' wars. Their action, however, has had little more significance - so it seems to me at least - than personal acts of faith, that have not helped to strengthen, as some of them have themselves pointed out, the forces of non-violence in their societies. This is not to shut one's eyes to the remarkable upsurge of the peace movement, particularly in the U.S., but the role of the pacifists in that development should not be exaggerated.</p>
		<p>I am saying all this not from a desire to criticise Western pacifists for whom I have the greatest regard and from whom we have a great deal to learn. My﻿ intention is only to take into account the experience of practitioners of non-violence in other lands in preventing or resisting war. Perhaps in their situation that was the best they could have done. While we must learn from their experience, we have to devise our own ways in our given situation.</p>
		<p>In this connection I wish to share two ideas that have been forming in my mind. Perhaps they are not new ideas, but as I have slowly come upon them in the midst of the spiritual agony of the past three months, I cannot resist the urge to place them before you and the country in the hope that they will be of some help to the nation in its quest for peace.</p>
		<p>The first thought I came upon was that all lover the world pacifists (in which term I am including here Gandhians as well for the sake of brevity, though I am aware of the difference between them) allow themselves to be placed in the ridiculous, not to say hopeless, situation of attempting to atone for others' sins. It is other people who prepare the wars, and then pacifists feel called upon to resist or end them. Doubtless, when the wars were in the making, pacifists (if they happened to be upon the scene) had tried to prevent them. But the stark fact remains that it has always been others who had brought the wars which pacifists had felt impelled to resist or remedy. It strikes me that this is a most illogical situation, and as long as pacifists find themselves in this absurd position they will remain ineffective. Mahatma Gandhi, no doubt, did say that even if there was one true satyagrahi, he could prevail against an empire. May be. But such a satyagrahi has to be born. Here I am dealing with ordinary humans who are human enough to draw a line at brother killing brother. Such humans I am saying﻿ cannot succeed in ushering in a Warless world if they leave the running of public affairs in others' hands.</p>
		<p>Pacifists, as well as others interested in eliminating war have long understood that in order to eliminate war one will have to go to the roots of war and destroy them there. But unfortunately, not enough has been done about it. More attention has been paid in the West to the spectacular acts of resistance, non-cooperation or protest. The roots of war are in men's mind's, in their system of education, - and this is directly relevant to the present occasion - in their socio economic and political institutions and processes. Unless pacifists and others wanting to create a world without wars turn their attention to this truly vast field of activity, they will not succeed.</p>
		<p>Thanks to Gandhiji's lead, all this has been well understood in this country. Gandhiji's constructive program; his insistence on radical reform of the system of education; his emphasis on decentralisation of economic and political power and on grassroots democracy, as pictured in his concept of gramraj, and on selfreliance and self-sufficiency; his moral precepts about a life of simple wants; his instance on the equality of religions, castes, races; his concept of nationalism as a complement of internationalism - all these were intended to lead towards a world without violence.</p>
		<p>But after Gandhiji, his all-sidedness, the comprehensive view he took of the problem of society, went out of the movement he had created. The political wing of it bid him good-bye as soon as it came to power, and instead of concerning itself with truth and non-violence and sarvodaya - as a goal of swaraj - as it had done during the freedom struggle, it soon turned to what it rather oddly called at the beginning, the socialistic pattern of society. The constructive or service wing,﻿ however, under Vinobaji's leadership has tried to carry on Gandhiji's work, but it lacks this comprehensiveness or wholeness. By confining itself mainly to rural India, it has left almost untouched the urban centres, which are centres of education and cultural life, of public - opinion - making, of Government, business and trade. By keeping aloof from day-to-day public affairs, it has failed to shape or influence them. In saying this - let me make it clear - I am criticising myself as much as my colleagues. And this self-criticism is intended to provoke thought and discussion in wider intellectual circles interested in this matter.</p>
		<p>The task that this self-criticism sets before the Gandhians is truly a stupendous one: namely, the task of so developing the Gandhian movement that it is able to influence public policy and the course of national life in all its walks. To fulfil this task is beyond the resources of a handful of Gandhians. Unless all concerned join in the effort, the country may find itself drifting into directions that few sensible persons may consider desirable. It is in order to create a wider interest in the movement that I have brought up this matter here.</p>
		<p>Of the many things that will have to be done to fulfil this task, I may draw attention to the most relevant. It should be obvious that unless there is a mass movement of non-violence created, involving social action, change and reconstruction, the necessary mass pressure will not be generated to influence public policy and public affairs. Happily, it appears that this need can be fulfilled by Vinobaji's gramdan movement, launched particularly in its popular form as a toofan or sweeping campaign. Experience of the past few months in Bihar, Orissa, Madras and Maharastra, where concerted effort is being made, has shown that﻿ the <em>toofan</em> movement seems capable of succeeding. But the present effort is unequal to the total task. Mysore is particularly behind in this respect. May one hope that the stimulus to this vital movement will come from this great centre of education?</p>
		<p>The question of Gandhians taking a more direct interest in politics so as to be able to influence the course of public policy has often been raised. Some Gandhians too have from time to time advocated such a policy - some of them suggested formation of a Gandhian political party, others entry in mass of Gandhians into one or more of the existing political parties. It may be recalled that Gandhiji himself seemed to be thinking of other ways to tackle the problem, when he had prepared that famous draft resolution for the All India Congress Committee in which he had argued for the dissolution of the Congress and its "flowering" into what he called a Lok Sevak Sangh</p>
		<p>True to his radical nature, he was thinking of the root of the task, rather than its fruit. In other words, he seemed to be thinking of going to the people, the Lok rather than to the Lok Sabha. This line of Gandhiji, Acharya Vinoba has been following. But there is this unavoidable difference. Under Gandhiji, his Lok Sevak Sangh would have rapidly developed into a mass movement, capable of influencing not only the opinion of the people's representatives but also their selection. It may be recalled that the Lok Sevak Sangh was especially to concern itself with the enrolment and education of voters. It is also certain that Gandhiji would have launched a mass drive in behalf of gramraj as a base to operate from. Unfortunately Gandhians after him neglected that programme and left it to the government to put into practice in the vulgarised version of <em>Panchayati raj,</em> until, Vinobaji hit upon﻿ <em>gramdan</em> as a corner-stone of <em>gram-raj</em>. In areas where <em>gramdan-toofan</em> is on, there is a possibility of majority of villages in given constituencies being swept into the movement. That cannot but produce a profound impact on politics.</p>
		<p>One of the weakest links in the chain of the Gandhian movement at present is the absence of adequate intellectual support. May I take this opportunity to make a plea to you, and through you to other centres of higher learning, to consider whether you do not owe it to yourselves and to the country - if not also to humanity at large - to pay greater attention to Gandhiji's life and teaching and their relevance to the modern world and to the tasks that face us and the destiny that beckons us? Do you not also agree that war is an evil and must be rooted out? Or, to leave out the moral overtone, do you not agree that war will be runinous for this country and that we must have stable peace to devote ourselves to the tasks of nationbuilding? Therefore, should it not be your concern as much as that of us Gandhians to search for peace and the way to a world without war? If our intellectuals were to be inspired by this challenge and the vision it holds, I have no doubt that non-violence would no longer be looked upon as an idle thought, to be tolerated for the sake of the Father of the Nation, but for the rest to be ignored in the affairs of private or public life, but would become a vital and dynamic idea that might dominate politics and Parliament and provide the much needed stimulus for mass action. At every university, instead of the present practice of having ceremonial lectures on Gandhi, there could be serious study and research, both fundamental and empirical, in nonviolence as a basis of social life. Our ancients, as you know, particularly those of the Jain persuasion, has﻿ done most careful work in applying non-violence to individual life, going in the process to the most extreme practices imaginable. But when it came to social violence, neither could they discover how to resist or eliminate its open forms, such as war, nor its indirect forms, such as economic exploitation, except by moral exhortation. Here is a vast challenging field of intellectual work both for the young men and women gathered here and their learned teachers and guardians.</p>
		<p>In thanking you for bearing with me so patiently, I ask your forgiveness for taking so much of your time.</p>
	</section>
	<section class="level1 numbered" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" id="id-009">
		<h1 class="level1-title" epub:type="title">﻿﻿ Address delivered at the Convocation of the University of Mysore on Tuesday 27th January 1970 by Prof. V.K.R.V. Rao, Union Minister of Education and Youth Services</h1>
		<p><strong>MR. CHANCELLOR, MR. VICE-CHANCELLOR, DISTINGUISHED GUESTS AND GRADUATES OF THE YEAR,</strong></p>
		<p>I feel deeply honoured and privileged by the invitation extended to me to deliver this year's convocation address of the Mysore University. Karnataka has been the cradle of empires, the treasure house of religions, and the centre of architecture and sculpture. Many seers, poets and artists have contributed towards the rich and varied cultural heritage of Karnataka, which portray unity in diversity, the spirit of tolerance and mutual understanding and, above all, the synthesis of different religions.</p>
		<p>Culturally, the Mysore country has been a link between the North and the South. Here you find side by side the earliest examples of Dravidian and North Indian architectural styles being experimented upon before Mysore evolved its own style. Without being swayed off its feet by the impact of outside influences, Mysore has, throughout the centuries, absorbed the best that the rest of India had to offer. Emperor Asoka's message of love, tolerance and compassion, carved on the rocks of Brahmgiri in Chitradurg in Mysore State, is proof that the Mysore country was exposed to beneficial influences from the North from early historical times.</p>
		<p>Mysore has, throughout its history, proved to be a fertile soil for practically all religions. Buddhism, Jainism, Veera-Shaivism and Vaishnavism - all found Karnataka to be congenial for the spread of their﻿ messages. Jainism has continued for centuries to be an influence in shaping the values of life in Karnataka. This influence percolated through excellent old Kannada poetry with its essential message of the spirit of nonviolence. Legend says that long, long ago Emperor Chandra Gupta Maurya, fed up with the pursuit of power and wealth abdicated in favour of his son, and becoming a Jain monk, retired to the peaceful seclusion of Shravanabelagola. To millions of Jains all over the country it is today a great centre of pilgrimage. The unique status of Gommateshwara at Shravanabelagola stands as a symbol of not only the spiritual tranquility experienced by the people of ancient Karnataka but also of the self-sacrifice practised by them.</p>
		<p>Buddhism must have had its hayday in Mysore as it had in the Andhra Desha but of Jainism we have proof of a more abiding association, influencing literature, art and philosophy of the region. For many centuries the ruling families in Mysore country patronised both Jain and Hindu scholars and saints. The Vijayanagar Empire, which holds an eminent position in the annals of Indian history and had made a unique contribution to the cultural heritage of Karnataka, was known for establishing religious tolerance. It is said that Vijayanagar court was a hostel of hospitality of all religions, a workshop for all arts and skills. Historians have observed that it was an empire founded with the purpose of giving protection to all religions irrespective of different sects.</p>
		<p>We all tend to talk of tolerance, catholicity of outlook, secular ideals etc. as though these were values recognised for the first time by the modern mind. If we could look little more closely at our history and with some depth of understanding, we would see that what we preach today was a part of the daily life of these people. Vishnu Vardhana, for instance, who became a disciple of Ramanuja, did not compel his wife Shantala to give up her faith in Jainism. She continued to be as devoted a Jain as before. Being a Jain did not prevent her from causing a beautiful temple for Vishnu to be built. This is not a solitary instance. Scholars will tell you that in many families of commoner people there were worshippers of Vishnu, Jaina and Shiva. It did not disturb their normal pattern of life nor cut asunder their filial attachments. To the majority of the people religion was a matter of individual conscience and not of social differentiation. We should not forget that these people of whom I am talking lived and belonged to an age of intense faith - the faith that created some of the finest and most enduring master-pieces of temple art.</p>
		<p>Mysore has been a meeting ground and never a battle ground of different systems of philosophy. Shankara, Ramanuja and Madhva, the great Acharyas of Hinduism were all associated with Mysore in a rather intimate way. Madhava was born in Karnataka, while the other two Acharyas came to Karnataka by open choice. The devoted efforts of the three Acharyas and their disciples in Karnataka went a long way towards achieving a rational synthesis of three paths of realising the spiritual goal, viz. <em>Karma</em> (work), <em>Jnana</em> (knowledge) and <em>Bhakti</em> (devotion). Sankara, who advocated Advaitism, emphasised knowledge <em>(Jnana)</em> as the means for Moksha, while Karma and Bhakti were given a subordinate place. Ramanuja, who advocated <em>Visistadvaitism,</em> gave special emphasis to Bhakti as a means to Salvation; while Karma and Jnana are subordinate to it. Madhvacharya, as a protagonist of Dvaita Metaphysics, propounded a fine combination of religion and philosophy and popularised the cult of Bhakti. The intense devotion to a personal God, one's own internal purification, and social service preached by him and his followers have contributed much to the cultural development of the people of Karnataka.</p>
		<p>The Bhakti movement initiated by Vaishnava Acharyas was further strengthened and developed by the great Saint - composers like Purandaradasa and Kanakadasa. The devotional songs composed by these Saints have become household treasures in Karnataka. We still sing their songs. Their literary beauty will not wear out ever, even as it has not so far. The famous song of Purandaradasa extolling the triumph of truth and non-violence for which Mahatma Gandhi stood in modern age has importalised him.</p>
		<p>Thus says Purandara Dasa:</p>
		<p class="myquote">"Show love to him who hates you -<br /> Of him that loaths you, speak well<br /> and implore the Lord's blessings;<br /> befriend him who would kill you,<br /> and to him who speaks ill of you behind<br /> your back render thanks; and help him find<br /> liberty who seeks to deprive you of it.</p>
		<p class="myquote">Speak highly of him that would have you<br /> killed and sing praises of him that hates you."</p>
		<p>The advent of another great religious leader and social reformer, Basavesvara, in the 13th century marked a new epoch in the history of Karnataka. He preached the simple truth of life and the noble values on which an egalitarian society can be built and maintained. He advocated and practised the brotherhood of humanity. His teachings have had a tremendous influence in shaping a new society in Karnataka based of inner﻿ purity, devotion to God and fraternity. He gave a new connotation to the word Karma (Work). He insisted that no one had the right to feed oneself unless one did every day one's manual labour. It is not by enormous earning, but by the day's earning that one should get fed. Any earning in a day in excess of what one needed should be made over to a social or monastic institution. This is the rule of what is known as Kayaka. He removed the sense of high and low in respect of the duties one undertook. For him there is neither high nor low among men.</p>
		<p>Basava says:</p>
		<p class="myquote">"To me all the lovers of God are one<br /> Such is my faith.<br /> There is no high born for me nor low born."</p>
		<p>He believed in the dignity of labour. He did not attach any importance to caste or class. He advocated the basic ethics of life which is upheld by the great religions of the world. This is summed up in the following simple verse:</p>
		<p class="myquote">"Do not kill, do not steal, do not<br /> tell a lie. Do not be wrathful,<br /> do not be intolerant of others.<br /> Do not praise yourself nor reprimand others.<br /> This is internal purity.<br /> This is external purity.<br /> This is the only way by which<br /> you can command yourself to God<br /> and win his approval."</p>
		<p>Though he was among the greatest, he considered himself as lowest of the low. <em>(Eanaginta Kiriyarilla)﻿</em></p>
		<p>The Saints and religious leaders of Karnataka have greatly contributed towards not merely the enrichment of Kannada literature but also its growth. Jains were the pioneers in the field of Kannada poetry. The works of great stalwarts like Pampa, Ranna, Nagachandra and Janna have contributed greatly towards the growth of Kannada literature. The Bharata of Pampa has won the distinction of a unique Kannada classic. Basava used the language of the common man for propagating his teachings just as Guru Nanak used the language of the common man for his teachings. The Vachanas of Basava represent a new literary form and gave a new dimension to Kannada literature.</p>
		<p>I have referred to some of the achievements made by Karnataka in the field of culture, religion, arts and literature not with the idea of bringing to your attention the past glory of Mysore, of which you are all well aware, but more with the purpose of reminding you about the abiding values which the people of Karnataka have cherished and put into practice. Particularly I would like to bring to your attention the spirit of patriotism and religious tolerance and the secular attitude adopted by the Kings as well as the religious leaders and Saints of Karnataka. The new graduates of this University should remember these ethical ideals and try to inculcate them and also follow them in their life. There is a great need today particularly among our younger generation to promote the feeling of oneness, to realize that they are basically members of one nation and develop the spirit of tolerance for all faiths. Truth, humility, patriotism and devotion to God - these are some of the virtues frequently upheld in were, as an inscription says, were taught to infants lying on the laps of their mothers. It is said that a mother while feeding the child put the following words into its ears:</p>
		<p class="myquote">"Construct tanks; sink wells, build<br /> temples; help the fetters of the<br /> helpless; help friends; be true to<br /> those who confide in you; protect your<br /> followers."</p>
		<p>I want to commend these instructions to our younger generation. It may not be possible for all to follow all the commands, but in the modern context, these should be viewed as an injunction to us to undertake some kind of work which is of social value and be of active help to Society to whom we owe a duty.</p>
		<p>With this prayer, I now great the new graduates of the year and wish them god-speed in the exciting world of life and work they are about to enter.</p>
		<p>Jai Hind.</p>
	</section>
	<section class="level1 numbered" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" id="id-010">
		<h1 class="level1-title" epub:type="title">﻿﻿ Address delivered at the Convocation of the University of Mysore on Sunday 8th February 1976 By Dr. H.N. Sethna, Chairman, Atomic Energy Commission, Bombay</h1>
		<p><strong>MR. CHANCELLOR, MR. VICE-CHANCELLOR, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN AND GRADUATES OF THE YEAR,</strong></p>
		<p>It is indeed a privilege and a great pleasure for me to be here today for the Convocation of your University. The Mysore University has a distinguished past and I am glad to learn that you would be celebrating your Diamond Jubilee this year. Eminent scholars like Dr. S. Radhakrishnan, A.R. Wadia and Radha Kamal Mukherji were among your faculty and the tradition they had evolved is indeed excellent. I am deeply grateful to His Excellency the Chancellor and the University of Mysore for the honour they have conferred on me today especially as this University was founded by Dr. Visveswarayya, the Engineer-Statesman who contributed so much to India's industrial progress.</p>
		<p>The future roles of a large affiliating University like yours are increasingly uncertain in our times. The clamour for expansion of under-graduate education arising out of growing secondary school enrolment and the vital need for restructuring and reorienting educational programmes at the College and University level to meet our future manpower needs, particularly in the rural sector, in fact the whole future of post secondary education, are being hotly debated all over the country. I am sure your University is developing a whole range of solutions to these problems specific to your situation and the special needs of Karnataka.﻿</p>
		<p>Today, I wish to share some of my thoughts with you on the theme of Social Role of Science and Technology.' The Power of Science and Technology in modernising societies and improving the quality of life are well known. All over the world, it has become axiomatic for the last hundred years to believe in the use of science and technology in bringing about social change. Over the last five years, particularly in the West, this unqualified, wholesale, faith in science and technology has been weakened. Several responsible people in different walks of life are questioning the role and direction of science. Searching thinkers, both scientists and non-scientists, are troubled by the new images, at their fashionable extremes, projecting science as mindlessly giving, to unprepared or unwise people, uncontrolled power over nature and human life. A rapidly spreading alternative, again in the Western world, to the rational world view, often appears to be aimless searching for immediate experience and unreasoned, instant truth. Little headway has been made to counter these attacks, by refusing to take them seriously or by starting from the assumption that the methods of science and images of nature offered by science are unchallengable.</p>
		<p>The harmful side effects of science and technology like pollution, mindless encouragement of consumption, over crowding and increase of tension and stress among human beings are widely known. While in India, the effects have been somewhat moderate because of the state of our development, the trend is clearly visible that science and technology would play an increasingly important and basic role in the future agricultural and industrial programmes. We can now predict that the opposition to science and technology in varying degrees would increase in the future. The heydays of the fifties﻿ and the sixties when liberal funds were available to scientific endeavour, are now over. Increasingly, relevance, utility and accountability are the words that are being heard in the world of science and technology. We have now made a plan for science and technology relating it to the fifth plan's socio-economic programmes. In such an atmosphere of expectations, what should be the role of science and technology? I am using science and technology collectively though by nature they are different. Whereas the goals of science are largely derived from the structure of science, those of technology frequently derive from political, economic and external spheres. While science claims a kind of morality and jurisdiction intrinsic unto itself, technology is often judged in relation to outside values. Here, however, I am using the term science and technology collectively to refer to the entire scientific enterprise or the science system.</p>
		<p>Public attitudes - favourable or unfavourable are shaped far more by expectations of good or evil technological developments than by approval or disapproval of the scientific enterprise itself. While in our country, public attitudes are largely indifferent, a time may soon come when rejection of science and technology may become fashionable. I wish to dwell upon some potential misconceptions about the scientists and technologists that might arise in the future.</p>
		<p>The first is the image of the scientist as a Frankenstein. I am willing to concede that this image is to some extent true. The people who worked at the Manhattan Project knew the destructive potential of nuclear weapons. The American scientists who worked on chemical and biological warfare knew about its potential applications in Vietnam. Recently, at the Pugwash Conference in Madras, a reference was made﻿ about research in the use of weather and climate for warfare. The awesome potential of computers in handling enormous amounts of data, reducing individual privacy to nothing and the possible manipulations through genetic engineering are indeed frightening. But the use to which a scientific discovery is put, is entirely a non-scientific decision. For example, Fast Breeder Technology has enormous potential to release energy contained in nuclear fuels. Its use of plutonium has an element of risk. Plutonium is highly toxic and is one of the key materials in a nuclear weapon programme. The handling, transportation, use and storage of plutonium are difficult operations. Considering the benefits of Breeder technology, I would willingly take the risk of using plutonium. The plutonium problem presents to me an acceptable level of risk. In any technology, there are risks and side effects. One can only minimise them to an acceptable level. If we are looking for a technology with no side effects, then it can only be a pipedream. By and large, I would say scientists, particularly in India, are concerned with the evil effects or potential of technology and do not consciously work for them.</p>
		<p>There is another genuine fear amongst some intellectuals that science and technology will increase the relative power and influence of the rich and the ruling classes. They cite the example of the rural rich becoming more powerful in the wake of the Green Revolution in some areas. The Planning Commission and the National Committee on Science and Technology are well aware of this possibility and have taken adequate care to ensure the consistency of our Science and Technology Plan with national objectives of income and wealth redistribution, leading to more equality.﻿</p>
		<p>I take issue with those who would like to argue that science - in the sense of curiosity research - should be of a very low priority unless real problems like poverty etc., are solved. Basic research may have limited funds in the overall context, but we must have a programme of fundamental research as knowledge, like beauty or honesty, is worth in itself. One cannot argue that basic research should not be supported, as it is like saying that ballet should not be supported or the blue whale should not be protected unless it can be shown that they will be utilitarian in a physical or tangible sense.</p>
		<p>The second image of the scientist is that of a Mandarin. This image arises out of the fear that science and technology operate as a closed elitist shop - closed to unorthodox ideas or uncomfortable data, especially if they originate outside a small circle of established leaders. I find even this image is distorted. Science and technology, broadly use objective, universal criteria, as well as extensive worldwide communications (journals, information systems or media) and the youngest scientists are also heard with due consideration, even if their views are unorthodox or revolutionary. The very philosophy of science admits within its framework "uncomfortable" data against established theories. However, I do believe that it is practically impossible for any real "outsider" to the science system to contribute any new ideas as science has become highly specialised and differentiated in this century.</p>
		<p>The third image of scientists, prevalent among the public is that of an Adding machine - cold, objective and non-human. This group prefers modes of knowledge other than scientific - more human, more direct and more rapturous. These other modes are essentially religious, moral and aesthetic experiences. I accept that﻿ science recognises only one mode of knowledge - its own - but it does not deny the validity or relevance of other modes of knowledge in human life. Science cannot change, to incorporate these other modes without destroying itself. When one considers the external universe - whether atomic or galactic - it often does not have any human value or meaning. But there is a compensation. Precisely at the most abstract level, furthest removed from human experience, we find harmony and order. The enormous firmament of galaxies is in a state of uniform expansion at the rate of the "escape velocity" in a frame of reference which is spherically symmetric.</p>
		<p>I recognise the moral dangers of pure objectivity. It can mean a value free world; no commitment, coldness or amorality like an Adding machine. But one finds several of our scientists and technologists involved in national development and social activism. However, I do see, in hippies, flower children and some of the modern gurus, the danger of subjectivity that the rejection of an external standard of truth can leave a person as solipsistic and self-satisfied as a baby. Moreover, the 'coldness' can refer only to the content of science. The 'process' of science - or research, discovery or application - is very exciting and satisfying. Its mood has its own beauty - clear, austere and reflective.</p>
		<p>While I was talking about these images, I was really defending science and technology - putting them in a balanced perspective. I strongly believe that they are the most potent instruments for social change we have today and there are no alternatives. Their use, however, demand wisdom and a sense of values. Science is inherently limited in its ability to deal with major questions of public policy - which are essentially extra﻿ scientific - that can be dealt with only by political and other interests. If scientists and technologists realise this, they can begin to make meaningful contribution in generating societal options.</p>
		<p>Such options can be generated only if science and technology does away with to some extent, the excessive emphasis on the discipline oriented approach. Social problems in energy, transportation, resources, environment, health etc., are multi-disciplinary, interdependent, highly complex and sometimes mutually conflicting. These problems, moreover, have much longer time perspectives and require massive coordination and understanding. Their solutions, would, often involve substantial present costs with benefits only in the distant future. We need holistic, multi-disciplinary groups having a systems approach to these problems. In the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, we have such groups working on energy, environment, safety and public health issues of the Atomic Energy Programme in a comprehensive manner. This is probably the only Centre of its kind in India. Only such groups can work in applying science and technology for developmental change by tackling the constellation of interdependent issues - what the Europeans call as 'the Problematique.' While I observe the extent of specialisation in science and technology, I do not see adequate measures of integration for balanced assessment or resource allocation. The 'Problematique' does not get solved if we adopt a project-to-project decision approach without considering their interactions and time perspective.</p>
		<p>The 'Problematique' requires massive public participation and involvement. I foresee exciting integrative institutional developments - triggered off by science and technology - involve Government, industry, the research sector and the people in facing the﻿ 'Problematique.' I hope our science policy making apparatus keeps this perspective in view. It may have to resist the short term orientation and clamour for quick pay off of many of our social institutions. It was George Santayana, the famous philosopher, who once said "Those who do not remember the past are condemned to relive it." In assessing the social role of science and technology, I believe the time has come to rephrase this aphorism as "Those who can actively anticipate the future are empowered to shape it."</p>
		<p>As I mentioned earlier, the involvement of the public is crucial for a healthy and responsive science. I find it disheartening to note that communication of science through our mass media - major strategy for public involvement and understanding of science - is very poor in our country. Last year, we spent over Rs. 200 crores on direct research and development and much more in applied, industrial, agricultural and other programmes. The share of space, time and resources deployed for science and technology by our media is hardly five per cent of the total. In regional languages, it is even less. Only in times of spectacular events like the peaceful nuclear experiment or the launching of a satellite, the coverage of science and technology is relatively increased. I would plead fervently for a better, more extensive communication to the public so that they may appreciate the drama, the mystery, the human relevance, the successes, the failures and the noteworthiness of science and technology. Scientists have a significant role in this task in interpreting and explaining science and technology and not as apologists or propagandists. Universities like yours also have a major role in taking science to the people through your extension and continuing education programmes.﻿</p>
		<p>In this talk, I have spelt out some of my thoughts regarding the social role of science and technology and the relationship of the science system with the public. I hope it provokes some thinking and action among all of you. Let me congratulate the graduating students and wish them all the best in their future careers and thank your University once again for giving me this opportunity to be with you today.</p>
	</section>
	<section class="level1 numbered" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" id="id-011">
		<h1 class="level1-title" epub:type="title">﻿﻿ CONVOCATION ADDRESS BY SRI ARJUN SINGH, HON'BLE UNION MINISTER FOR HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA, NEW DELHI ON THURSDAY, 10 FEBRUARY 1994</h1>
		<p>Mr. Pro-Chancellor, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, distinguished members of the university bodies, members of staff and Young Friends,</p>
		<p>I am delighted to be on the campus of Mysore University, one of the oldest universities in the country. This University has enjoyed the patronage of the Maharajas of the State and since its establishment has played an important role in promoting the cause of higher education in the country. A number of renowned academicians and statesmen of this country have guided the course of development of the University. It has also produced a large number of alumni who have distinguished themselves at the national and international level.</p>
		<p>I wish the out-going graduates a bright future in their lives. I have no doubt that the training you received here will stand you in good stead and by your accomplishments and success in life, you will bring honour to your alma mater. I would like to if I may, share same views on a few aspects of higher education.﻿</p>
		<p>Despite the massive infrastructure which we have created since independence, the enrolment of the cohort age group in higher education sector is around 6%. This compares very unfavourably with some of the Asian countries which are in a comparable state of industrialisation. Secondly, although we have the third largest scientific and technological stock of manpower in the world, still the overall proportion is only 6 per lakh compared to 70 in South Korea and 190 in Japan. These facts highlight the need for expansion of higher education in our country.</p>
		<p>Though education at all levels contributes to national development, higher education, in particular, assumes significance in promoting national development as it enhances social capabilities among people in terms of higher order knowledge and skills and generating new knowledge necessary for development and self-reliance. It has an important bearing on the nation's economic and technological progress. Accordingly, a country like India cannot afford to neglect its quest to achieve global standards in higher education-both in terms of quantity and quality.</p>
		<p>It is a fact that as on date, higher education is highly subsidised and the Government provides necessary funds for﻿ the establishment of colleges/universities as well as for their maintenance. Recognising the fact that the Government has valid constraints in the face of an all round resource scarcity and competing demands from other crucial sectors, there is a feeling that alternative resources for higher education need to be explored. This is not to suggest total privatisation, for in order to protect the interests of weaker sections, promote development and self-reliance, the Government has to play an important role in higher education. International experience too shows that countries which have neglected higher education have depended on other countries for their rapid industrialisation. However, even in developed countries, resources for higher education institutions have come from various sources.</p>
		<p>Studies reveal that even in' an affluent country like USA the general public funds constitute about 45% of the total income of the higher education institutions, in Germany it is. 68% and in Japan it is about 63%. In India, where the per capita income is low, privatisation of education would deprive a large section of people the access to higher education. It is only the affluent sections of society who can afford to pay the actual cost of education and this would create social inequality.</p>
		<p>The Justice Punnayya Committee appointed by the UGC has said that while Government funding should continue, steps should be taken by the Universities to generate some resources of their own. It has also suggested that the 'negotiated funding’. system which has been in vogue .all along 'should be replaced by a more scientific and rational system.</p> 
		<p>I feel that it is essential that our colleges and universities develop adequate mechanisms to generate their own income as well as optimise costs. It is possible 'to use the existing infrastructure to run. colleges/universities in a 'shift system. This will reduce the infrastructural funds for establishing new institutions. Equally important is the need to link research to the needs of Industry‘and Commerce. This will not only make education more relevant- to the needs of our economy, it will lead to better employment prospects for the products of our Universities. This will also lead to. greater generation of. funds. A beginning has been made in this direction and the Government will encourage all efforts in this area.</p>
		<p>The other alternative strategy which can be adopted to accommodate the future aspirants for access to higher education, is through the distance mode. As on date, there are 5 Open Universities in the country and nearly 44 Universities which have departments of distance education/ correspondence education. Unfortunately, distance education is considered inferior in quality to the conventional system. This misgiving can be eliminated if we can provide mobility between the formal and the nonformal systems. In the 'recently concluded EFA Summit, there was an agreement among all the participating countries that distance education possibly holds the key to the educational break-through we are all seeking. UNESCO too has agreed to participate in a project on this subject. I am hopeful of some tangible progress in the near future.</p>
		<p>While expansion of higher education is a must for the forseeable future, due care is also to be taken to ensure the quality of education. One has to recognise the fact that not all institutions are imparting a comparable standard of education. Thus areas like teacher training and motivation, adhering to academic time-tables as well as improving standards of discipline also need to be focussed on. Pandit Nehru had said that if our Universities functioned properly, all would be well with the country.</p>
		<p>My young friends are now leaving this sheltered environment to enter a fast and﻿ 150 competitive world. You will have your share of trials and tribulations, to deal with which, you will need all the intellectual and ethical resources you have acquired here. I am sure that you will all do very well. You all have my best wishes for a happy and successful life.</p>
		<p>Thank you.</p>
		<p class="text-center">JAI HIND﻿</p>
	</section>
	<section class="level1 numbered" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" id="id-012">
		<h1 class="level1-title" epub:type="title">CONVOCATION ADDRESS BY DR. A.P.J. ABDUL KALAM, SCIENTIFIC ADVISER TO RAKSHA MANTRI AND SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF DEFENCE RESEARCH &amp; DEVELOPMENT ON 25 FEBRUARY 1995</h1>
		<p class="text-center"><strong>DARE TO DREAM</strong></p>
		<p>I am indeed delighted and honoured to participate in this 75th Convocation of University of Mysore. I have been thinking about what to share with you on this important occasion when you are entering the most eventful phase of your life after years of leaming. I know that for the past twenty years or so you have been continuously taught various aspects by teachers. I am therefore not going to extend this process. Instead, I would like to share with you a few of my experiences, one at a place very close to you and others at Trivandrum and Hyderabad. These are the experiences where people have dared to dream and met with success. Of course, we have to recognise that success is always the result of sweat of individuals and also coupled with many failures. The place close to you is the site of pilgrimage not only for me but for every one who practices rocketry in our country. Let me first tell you something about this.</p>
		<p><strong>2. FIRST WAR ROCKET</strong></p>
		<p>When I was studying in school and college, Srirangapatna interested me for two reasons - the place was the scene of battle against foreign rule and also there was a reference to a new weapon introduced. In 1960, when I visited Srirangapatna with my friends, we were thrilled to walk around this historical town. We searched for the Turukhan-hally fort built during Hyder Ali- Tippu Sultan times﻿ 152 and used for making rockets, way back in 1794. I had a tremendous disappointment when I did not see any permanent evidence or historical recordings in Srirangapatna regarding creation or development of first war rocket in the world.</p>
		<p>Later, in 1963, I was at Wallop's Island, the rocket launch facility of NASA in USA, in connection with a collaborative programme of launching of sounding meteorological rockets for research of upper atmosphere. In the lobby of their command-control centre, I saw a prominently displayed picture. The war dress and the colour of the soldiers' skin attracted my attention. Some dark complexioned soldiers were firing rockets on their white skinned opponents. The label on the painting read, "The world's first war rocket". It was indeed a great pleasure to see an Indian feat acknowledged on the other side of the planet. I felt excited with happiness.</p>
		<p>I started reading the history of rockets. I had a dream I must see Tippu's rockets. Time continued to pass. Rocket technology engulfed me and India's first satellite launch vehicle SLV-3 was launched. In 1980, we had an opportunity to visit London. There, 1 saw two of the war rockets captured by British at Srirangapatna, displayed at Museum of Artillery at Woolwich in London with heading "India's War Rocket". Probably Europe learnt rocketry from our Srirangapatna rocket in the eighteenth century! It was a great thrill to see an Indian innovation on a foreign soil, well preserved and with facts not distorted.</p>
		<p>I got the performance of these 2 kg rockets, 50 mm in dia. and about 250 mm in length analysed by our designers. What a simple and elegant design, effectively used in war! Surely HyderTippu Sultan would have had talented men who could look at propulsion, material, ignition, and build rockets and fly them for war operations. In fact, when we look back to eighteenth century ambience, it is a technology marvel.</p>
		<p>I would like to declare today that this land is the birth place of war rockets in the world and offer it my reverence and respect. The tradition continues.</p>
		<p><strong>3. PROF. VIKRAM SARABHAI : MAN OF VISION</strong></p>
		<p>Nations advance along the course charted by great dreamers. Let me narrate to you an incidence which occurred in 1968. We were working on the configuration of India's satellite launch vehicle in Thumba. One day, Prof. Vikram Sarabhai, the then Chairman, Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), brought Prof. Curien, President, CNES, France, to our laboratory. France was developing Diamont satellite launch vehicles at that time. After focussing on our planned efforts, as an almost spontaneous reaction, Prof. Sarabhai proposed that we should fly India's fourth stage of SLV-3 as the Diamont's fourth stage. We had not flown even a meteorological rocket by that time, but Prof. Sarabhai was aware of the possibilities and trusted the capabilities of his team. His dream of SLV-3 fourth stage getting into a French launch vehicle finally came true in the form of apogee boost motor for APPLE satellite, flown by ARIANE, the European launch vehicle. This is the vision! He gave us a 15 year jump in our efforts. With three experimental Indian Remote Sensing Satellites (IRS) in orbit and their images being received in the USA, Satellite Ground Stations with Indian Satellite Launch Vehicle PSLV launching our own satellite from our own land, his dream visualised in 1965 has taken form through the people born at different times. Nations are thus built by men of vision who dream and prepare ground for the coming generations.</p>
		<p><strong>4. SUPER COMPUTER AND PARALLEL PROCESSING</strong></p>
		<p>In 1986, Dr VS Arunachalam and myself went to US to buy a Super Computerwith 400 mega flop speed. The Deputy Secretary in the Dept of Defence at Pentagon first put us into long series of technical discussions and then regretted the sale on the pretext that we will use it to develop long range missiles detrimental to the﻿ 154 security interests of the world. Traveling back disappointed, Dr Arunachalam said, "Let us make our own Super Computer". Today, India has a 32 node 1000 M Flops PACE SPARC 10 machine available for other countries to buy. Once we decide, we work and realise even tough dreams. That is what India expects from you.</p>
		<p>Ateamofyoung scientists and engineers under the leadership of Dr. G.Venkataraman formed ANURAG, i.e., Advanced Numerical Research and Analysis Group, to develop a parallel processing computer specially for aircraft design. At that time AGNI also was taking shape. The payload of AGNI would re-enter the atmosphere at 15 times the speed of sound. Even at this speed we had to keep the vehicle under control and while the payload outer temperature goes to 3000 degrees centigrade, inside of payload the ambient has to be less than 30 degrees centigrade. We have in India supersonic wind tunnel. We needed hypersonic wind tunnel for designing the AGNI payload. Varoius wind tunnel data could provide the loads experienced during the re-entry phase of the system. There were tunnels abroad but once they knew the application, they were refused.</p>
		<p>This time our high-tech academic institutions rose to the occasion. Prof S.M.Deshpande of Indian Institute of Science (llSc] with five young bright fresh scientists from DRDL with background of mathematics and fluid dynamics, developed Computational Fluid Dynamics Software for Hypersonic Regimes in just six months. This software is the original contribution with minimum computational facility available in the world. No country would have given us this type of software. But it was done through optimum partitioning, sequencing and paralleling the task. This software solution has established that brainpower. excels man-made machines, even super computers.</p>
		<p>I have seen that India can build her own super computer, India can fly its own rocket system within and outside the country. Both the dreams have come out of visions. This convocation ambience﻿ 155 where hundreds of young graduates are entering their professional lives, is ideal for thinking about the need of visions for the next two decades. What could they be?</p>
		<p><strong>5. VISION FOR THE NATION</strong></p>
		<p>With the growing population, increasing unemployment, unaffordable medical care, and changing value system, our Society is going through certain turbulent situation. The Society looks forward to prosperity. In a decade or two, prosperity and good life is possible if the nation has the vision. Vision generates progress. As an example, we can study the period between 1857 and 1947; it was the vision of freedom which not only got us independence but during the same period in India, vision of independence generated many leaders of excellence in politics, philosophy, history, science and technology and industry. Again, can we dream for a vision to make this nation great - a nation with prosperity and peace?</p>
		<p><strong>6. ENLIGHTENED CITIZENS</strong></p>
		<p>The vision of "Enlightened Citizens" calls for a mission of integrating education, occupation and health care as one single entity. For development of self, society and nation, it is essential that hundreds of clusters of villages are divided into multiple blocks of 20,000 families. And each block can be considered as a progress group with certain number of hospitals, schools and agriculture farms which could be growing cash crops, aromatic plants, or fish farms. The experience 'in Kerala and Tamilnadu indicates that integration of education and occupation resulted in small families, in addition to promoting self sustained good life. This enlightened citizen package can be extended to the whole country.</p>
		<p><strong>7. NETWORKING OF MAJOR RIVERS</strong></p>
		<p>We recently conducted a workshop on the subject based on Dr KL Rao's report "National Water Grid" and Capt. Dastur's proposal of "Garland Canal". This has all the dimensions of becoming an important vision for the nation. Nation can aim at linking multiple rivers resulting in water distribution, flood drought control, navigation and power generation. Above all, this will bring together the country as it happened during the independence movement, with potential revolution in agricultural output and employment generation. Experts have indicated that this is the right time to take this as a major programme as technology exists today and the country has the capability to finance such a programme. Today we have: satellite mapping of water resources and river flow aspects; capability to use nuclear energy for large tunneling in mountains to direct the river flows, and technological strength in mechanical, civil and communication engineering. It may be a 20 year programme for the nation.</p>
		<p><strong>8. ENERGY EVERY WHERE</strong></p>
		<p>Similarly the third area'is "Energy Everywhere". We believe by year 2000 plus, we will have to generate almost 50% more power. Probably, we will have to look for environment clean power. In addition to hydro and thermal energy, the non-conventional energy and nuclear energy has to contribute to power generation for which technological innovation is essential. Even hydro and thermal energy would need newer technologies so that they can provide affordable elecirical energy.</p>
		<p><strong>9. CONCLUSION</strong></p>
		<p>Friends! Vision for the Nation is in front of you. These dreams are bigger than the individual or group of people. Great things do not just occur; you have to dream about them and work to realize them. You can be a partner to the visions for the country and﻿ 157 begin to experience dreams coming true. What you are is God's gift to you. What you make out of yourself will be your gift to God. I wish you a challenging profession in your respective fields and recall the famous lines:</p>
		<p class="myquote">" the chances have just begun<br /> the best jobs haven't been started,<br /> the best work hasn't been done."</p>
	</section>
	<section class="level1 numbered" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" id="id-013">
		<h1 class="level1-title" epub:type="title">ADDRESS</h1>
		<p class="text-center"><strong>Delivered at the Convocation of the University of Mysore on 25th October 1948 by Sir M. Visvesvaraya.</strong></p>
		<p>Your HIGHNESS, GRADUATES OF THE YEAR, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,</p>
		<p>I FEEL highly honoured by the invitation graciously I extended to me by His Highness the Chancellor to address this year's Convocation.</p>
		<p>It was exactly thirty years ago that I attended the first Convocation of this University which was opened by His Highness the Maharaja Sri Krishnaraja Wadiyar Bahadur, the Founder and the first Chancellor of the University. He was a noble Ruler with cosmopolitan views, broad sympathies, love of his people and ambition to keep Mysore in the forefront of modern progressive States.</p>
		<p>Mysore was the first Indian State to think of a separate University for herself. At the time the question was first mooted, there were only six or seven Universities for the whole of India including Burma, and though therefore more Universities were overdue, the establishment of the Mysore University was by no means an easy affair. Its birthpangs were not confined to Mysore: The University of Madras to which Mysore was then attached, failed to look on the movement with favour. In the expressive language of some of the adherents of the Madras view, a separate University for Mysore came to be regarded in the light of a "runaway daughter fleeing from her parental home.</p>
		<p>From an educational point of view, Mysore was feeling cramped under the control of the Madras University. Modern developments in the theory and practice of higher﻿ 159 education, a proper place for Kannada, the language of the country in the University curriculum, the control of the colleges by the University rather than by a department of Government, and the desire to spread modern knowledge among the masses through extension and publication departments -- these were among some of the main consideraticns that moved us to establish a University of our own. We surmounted our difficulties with the Madras University Authorities by the generous support given by Lord Hardinge, then Viceroy of India, and the co-operation we received from the University of Bombay.</p>
		<p>Difficulties of various kinds confronted us at the very beginning. There were, at that time, only two colleges in the State teaching for the Arts Courses. There were no technical colleges to prepare young men for the learned professions. New courses of study were opened, a team of capable professors was recruited, and an Engineering College was established within one year.</p>
		<p>I need not repeat to you, the other large developments which have taken place during the last thirty years. The University has grown from strength to strength. The number of graduates at the first Convocation was 40. The number of graduates this year is 1,130 men and 147 women and the total number who have graduated since the University was started has been 11,219. The number of undergraduates receiving instruction has increased from 600 to 8,000. The University now possesses nearly all the faculties of a modern institution. The University soon acquired a very high academic reputation especially in the teaching of science. I earnestly hope that very high standards will be always maintained. Thousands of the alumni of the University have now been rendering distinguished service in various walks of life in Mysore, and I am glad to say, also in many other parts of India.</p>
		<p>The Mysore State built up progress and prosperity to a material extent during the time of its late distinguished﻿ 160 Ruler, His Highness the Maharaja Sri Krishnaraja Wadiyar Bahadur. Our present Ruler, His Highness the Maharaja Sri Jayachamaraja Wadiyar Bahadur, has brought contentinent and hope to the people of Mysore by conceding a Parliamentary form of Government.</p>
		<p>The country is slowly returning to normal after the last War and after the many vicissitudes occasioned by the partition. The atmosphere is still far from calm,</p>
		<p>This is an occasion when all desirable reconstruction problems have to be examined and discussed, suitable plans evolved and measures taken to restore ordered life in the Indian Union. On account of her unique traditions, Mysore in her smaller sphere is happily more favourably situated in this respect than the greater part of the Indian sub-continent.</p>
		<p>The future of the country, including that of Mysore, is not altogether unclouded or safe. There are quite a number of problems which may lead the Indian Union to difficulties unless diligently watched, and courageously and consistently controlled, with all the wisdom and skill suggested by past experience and the two Great Wars.</p>
		<p>I therefore think I shall be best serving the purpose of this Convocation by making a brief reference to some of these problems in the hope that they may receive the attention that is their due. Many of these problems, it will be agreed, can be also remembered and pondered over with advantage by the graduates who have taken degrees at the hands of the University today.</p>
		<p>There are difficulties to be removed and deficiencies to be remedied to make an ordered life replace the present day complexities. At the same time, numerous reforms and developments have to be planned and executed to satisfy the large section of the population who wish to see their country brought into line with the more progressive nations of the world.</p>
		<p>The Population Problem The population of India in 1872 was 208 million and in 1941 it rose to 389 million without including Burma. Since the division of the country into two parts, the number left to the Indian Union is 227 million and to Pakistan 687 million. "The population of the Indian States which have acceded to the Indian Union amounted to an additional 93 million according to the Census of 1941. The inference is that the total population of the Indian Union including the Hyderabad State will be in the neighbourhood of 320 million.</p>
		<p>I have taken up the question of population first! because it is growing at the rate of 5 to 6 million a year, and so far as the public is aware, there is no corresponding growth of production or income. This anomalous growth is doubtless causing a progressive lowering of the average standard of living of the entire population.</p>
		<p>India is a country of uncertain rainfall and many parts of it suffer from drought or famine at periodic intervals. In such circumstances the growth of population, its unchecked abundance at the rate it is going on, is a Damocles' sword hanging over the heads of large sections of the population who are already burdened with poverty and care as a result of the lowering of the standards of living, particularly since the commencement of the last War.</p>
		<p>Added to all these some 85 per cent of the population is illiterate and their standard of living is necessarily very low. Many young couples who bring up large families are reduced to poverty and become prematurely careridden and old:</p>
		<p>In my own life time, the population of this country has virtually doubled, and the future growth will be cumulative and therefore more rapid. In Western couns tries, Governments endeavour to spread the knowledge: necessary to restrict population: There is a Planned Parenthood Federation for this purpose in nearly every:﻿ 162 part of the United States of America, and of course similar organizations exist in many parts of Europe. There are small associations and agencies in India also to spread such knowledge but not to the extent which can be at all regarded as effective.</p>
		<p>The education of the masses, that is, the liquidation of illiteracy, will do some good; it will promote thought among them on the subject and cannot fail to lessen the rate of growth of population. The spread of industrial life has also had the same effect in Western countries.</p>
		<p>Another threat which may obstruct remedial measures is the spread of communism. The country is torn with differences and difficulties in all these respects. There is also the danger of the migration of people from destitute regions to localities where people are comparatively more industrious and prosperous.</p>
		<p>One remedy is for Government, capital and labour to come to a common understanding and put forth a powerful joint effort to increase production and gainful activities. The Government are doing all they can in this direction.</p>
		<p>The public should give thought to all these measures in proper time. Otherwise there may develop, at no distant date, a further catastrophic lowering of the standard of living of the entire population.</p>
		<p class="text-center"><strong>Food Supply</strong></p>
		<p>Although India is an agricultural country, she has to import a portion of her food supply from outside its boundaries. It is necessary to make arrangements and take stock periodically, in every district and region, of the quantities of food products available, the area of food crops under cultivation and other associated facts in an accurate manner. Correct statistics have to be maintained to enable Government to make unerring provision for the country's needs and to keep the public correctly informed at all times of the state of their food supply.</p>
		<p>The question has become a crucial one for the past five or six years since reports of deaths of lakhs of human beings for want of food came from the Calcutta side. The extra food supply which is being obtained from outside at the present time is stated to be in the neighbourhood of 2,000,000 tons per annum.</p>
		<p>Records should be maintained of the demand of food grains in every region or unit area and of the areas of food crops annually cultivated. The actual production and stock of such food grains from year to year should be also available. This should be done in every region as far as possible by suitable organization by the residents of the area itself.</p>
		<p>To give the public a feeling of safety, such data should be published every half year or every quarter. There is no reason why this should not be done except that we in this country prefer to be guided by tradition. In Japan, village populations have long been accustomed to maintain statistics of cultivation and production.</p>
		<p class="text-center"><strong>Defence</strong></p>
		<p>Defence The defence arrangements in the country have to be satisfactory and they should be such as to give confidence to the public and create a feeling of safety. Every section of the population should know that their country's defences are efficient and safe, and compare favourably with corresponding arrangements in similarly situated modern countries.</p>
		<p>It is understood that the Government propose to recruit some 130,000 to the Army permanently. The defence organization in the country is in the three divisions: the Army, Navy and Air Force. Hitherto, the responsibility for supplying defence machinery to protect the country rested with the British." In future, equipment in the shape of battleships, dreadnoughts, submarines, aircraft, armoured cars, tanks, etc., have to be the sole﻿ responsibility of the Indian personnel. The Government will have to make suitable arrangements to provide themselves with the technical staff and machinery for the manufacture of defence armaments. In future, defence machinery, like aircraft, automobile, motor machinery and equipment of every kind have to be manufactured in India itself. Contact should be maintained with corresponding equipment in foreign countries. Also an adequate number of institutes for military training have to be established. In Japan, a fixed number of persons is maintained in proportion to the population in every village or group of villages, trained for military service. The Central Government can obtain contingents from this reserve to the extent needed in an emergency. It is not safe to rely, in these days, for supply of defence machinery or arms or for special technical skill, on foreign countries.</p>
		<p>It is suggested that a <em>Public Defence Advisory Committee</em> of reliable patriotic persons should be studying the strength and equipment in this respect to give assurance to the public that all reasonable precautions are being taken.</p>
		<p>One word more; in future, recruits to military establishments should be obtained from all parts and every corner of the country and not confined to any particular castes or communities as was being done under the previous administration. It is understood this aspect of recruitment is already receiving attention.</p>
		<p class="text-center">Industries</p>
		<p>The main source of economic prosperity of leading nations within the past half a century, has been the practice of industries. Scientific applied research has greatly helped to increase production and reduce cost.</p>
		<p>The reason why industries are given importance in progressive countries, is that they increase the working power of man for producing goods for human consumption. Industries are indispensable for production of defence machinery, for producing comforts and conveniences at low cost, for increasing income generally and raising the standard of living.</p>
		<p>Without proper development of industries, civilized life as lived by prosperous nations will not be possible. Agricultural countries are neither progressive nor prosperous.</p>
		<p>The present prices of commodities due to inflation are unusually high. Ten or twelve years ago income from industries per head of population stood approximately as follows:-</p>
		<table>
		<tr>
			<td>British India</td>
			<td>...Rs. 15</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>United Kingdom</td>
			<td>...Rs. 465</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>United States of America</td>
			<td>...Rs. 830</td>
		</tr>	
		</table>
		<p>One of the reasons for the weakness of industries in this country is the absence of any plan or scheme for their development.</p>
		<p>Absence of proper statistics is one of the weakest points in the organization.</p>
		<p>Capital is the controlling factor and it is not forthcoming. Machinery and experts cannot be obtained easily on account of difficulties connected with dollar exchange.</p>
		<p>We were complaining for several generations that industries were impeded and retarded under the former Government. Hopes of rapid advance were roused when the national Government came to power. There is at present the threat of nationalization of industries. Labour is illiterate; it is often misled, and production is falling. There is no proper understanding between the Government, labour and the business community.</p>
		<p>For all these reasons, industrialists feel discouraged and much of the constructive work that could be done by business men is not done and the country is losing.</p>
		<p>A strong movement is necessary with proper propaganda to put pressure on Government and also to create interest in the public mind in favour of industries.﻿</p> 
		<p class="text-center"><strong>Agriculture and Irrigation</strong></p>
		<p>We have a very large population with an enormous amount of hand power and brain power which are very imperfectly utilised at present and which, if properly guided, utilised and regulated, are likely to bring vast bencfits to the Indian population.</p>
		<p>I was asked in foreign countries why, if we have such a large population and such a large amount of working power, we should consider ourselves poor. Man power would prove a great asset only when properly encouraged and used.</p>
		<p>In modern civilized countries the average proportion of population employed in agriculture is about 33 per cent. In industrial Britain it is only 5 to 7 per cent. In India, due to the absence of any development plan, the masses of the population have drifted largely into agriculture. The population depending more or less on agriculture seems to come to about 67 to 70 per cent of the total.</p>
		<p>All countries which have become civilized have done so by reducing the number of citizens employed in agriculture and putting them on other more profitable occupations.</p>
		<p>Another great disadvantage under which the rural population labours, is that the bulk of it-85 to 90 per cent-is illiterate.</p>
		<p>Canal irrigation and wet irrigation come within the sphere of agriculture. Irrigation enhances the value of crops. The value of output of crops is sometimes as much as 5 to 10 times that obtained from dry cultivation. Schemes of irrigation of very large size are being designed.</p>
		<p>Agriculture could be improved greatly by the use of suitable manures. The use of tractors and agricultural tools will also help to increase production.</p>
		<p>Village populations have to be educated so that there may not be left any adult illiterate persons in the country﻿ 167 after the next 10 or 12 years. There should be no laxity in enforcing compulsory education.</p>
		<p>The estimated per capita annual income of this country from agriculture as compared with that of some of the progressive countries, as estimated some ten years ago, was approximately as follows :Canada</p>
		<table>
		<tr>
			<td>Canada</td>
			<td>... Rs. 1,038</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>United States of America</td>
			<td>... ” 1,400</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>United Kingdom</td>
			<td>... ” 980</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>India</td>
			<td>... ” 65</td>
		</tr>
		</table>
		<p>Figures are not available for up-to-date comparison.</p>
		<p>There is a reservoir of brain power in the country which can be equipped with knowledge and a reservoir of hand power which can be equipped with skill. For lack of plan, policy and determination, such policies and practices are not being pursued. Enormous populations still adhere to traditional backward practices and methods.</p>
		<p class="text-center">Production</p>
		<p>A few remarks are necessary at this stage on production comprising the output of both agriculture and industries. At present prices are high for various reasons; capital, labour, and Government have all contributed to the rise.</p>
		<p>The value of products which agriculture contributes to national income in America is reported to be 10 per cent. The Indian figure can only be guessed. The American view is that higher industrial efficiency and lower prices of products is the foundation of national prosperity.</p>
		<p>For satisfactory increase of production, capital, labour, and Government have to think and work with one view. Government are striving hard to promote such a view, but they are meeting with difficulties of a character not experienced before.</p>
		<p>Under the present circumstances in India, it would be a great achievement if every district is divided into﻿ 168 small regional units and the residents of each unit are made to bear the responsibility for production as well as for the preparation and submission of production statistics. From the production figures of each region the earning power per capita will be approximately known and this estimate will be a useful test of the earning power of the region.</p>
		<p class="text-center">Capacity and Character</p>
		<p>The business and defence strength of a nation depends upon the capacity and character of its people. I have elsewhere expressed the view that without a thought-out plan, lead or drive, it will take a very long time for the population of a region to attain a satisfactory ordered life.</p>
		<p>America has developed a prosperous life because it encourages certain moral values in its education and social make-up. These values, according to an American authority, are efficiency, industry, equality of opportunity, service. American people, it is well known, like success, and there is no envy or jealousy in their hearts for the man who succeeds. Among them, equality of opportunity for all is the rule.</p>
		<p>A new nation has to be built up in India and Government should take into their service, or otherwise utilise for nation-building, the services of all men and women who have ability, power or skill and who have ambition to serve their country, no matter to what party they belong.</p>
		<p>As the country now stands we will be running serious risks if we neglect preparation for an efficient industrial life. Young men of real talent should try to make a career for themselves in industry and should begin to treat idleness as a crime. There is no other substitute for hard work if we are to place our national economy on a sound footing.﻿</p>
		<p>I have often asked myself why an American is so prosperous and the Indian so depressed. Recently, the Hon'ble Mr. K. C. Neogy, Finance Minister, Government of India, in answer to a question by a Member in the Dominion Parliament, stated that according to an estimate made by the Ministry of Commerce the income per head during 1945-46 for undivided India with the inflated prices then current was Rs. 198. Corresponding-figures for other countries were-- Australia Rs. 1,799; Canada Rs. 2,868; the United Kingdom Rs. 2,355 ; and the United States of America Rs. 4,668. The reason for all this is that the time we in India give for work is too short and the methods followed, too irregular. Besides this, as I so often stated, the great majority of the Indian population is illiterate.</p>
		<p>There is a wrong idea that hard work is injurious to health. The expectation of life of an American is 63 for women and 61 for men, while that of an average Indian is 28. In other words, in spite of his hard work, the American lives to twice the age that an Indian does. Besides this, he works only for five days in the week. Saturday and Sunday are for him complete holidays. What more satisfactory evidence could there be to show that work is the salvation of the modern man !</p>
		<p>With regularity in hours of work, proper organization and the aid of machinery, skilled men and women will be able to turn out sometimes two or three times the present amount of output without fatiguing or wasting their muscle power. The adoption of modern business methods and practices will be additional aids to reduce physical labour and promote efficiency.</p>
		<p>Without hard work, without precision in his habits and behaviour, the Indian citizen will find it difficult to achieve success. Working habits, working hours, and working behaviour-all require improvement.﻿</p>
		<p>The following four rules of behaviour are suggested :--</p>
		<p>(1) The citizen's working hours are short in the</p>
		aggregate ; they should be increased. His working hours are too irregular; they <p>should be made regular.</p>
		<p>(2) He should strive to promote unity, harmony, Co-operation in every walk of life.</p>
		<p>(3) He should learn to practise diligence, discipline and precision . Loyalty, honesty and unselfishness help a man to success.</p>
		<p>(4) In daily life he should show courtesy and service to fellowmen.</p>
		<p class="text-center">Advice to Graduates</p>
		<p>It is usual in a Convocation Address to give advice to: young persons who are preparing to enter life.afteri graduation. I have already given a few hints for citizen behaviour under the head, " Capacity and Character."</p>
		<p>To the individual who lacks energy, the American viewpoint may be commended, .namely, “Those who won't work shan't eat."</p>
		<p>The Western viewpoint of work is that man had not been sent to a finished world to enjoy, but into an uns finished world to complete it. This means that every person is expected to be thinking of the future and constantly: improving his lot, while at the same time contributing by: work or service whatever good he can to his fellowmen or humanity. Experience shows that in every profession, the man of character, the man of purpose, the man with the necessary training, the man of ambition, the man with an attentivo personality and, infinite capacity for hard work, will succeed.</p>
		<p>The ambitious graduates should note the following four more rules from a collection left behind by the﻿ 171 Founder of the great Banking House of Rothschilde, They are :-</p>
		<p class="myquote">Bear troubles patiently; be brave in the struggle of life;<br />Maintain your integrity as a sacred thing;<br /> Employ your time well;<br /> Don't reckon on chance, but work hard.</p>
		<p>I have lived rather a long life, and the graduates who have taken degrees might ask me what advice I have to give for their guidance from my own personal experience. My answer would be this: if you lead an active life and your employment happens to be congenial to your temperament, work will keep you fit. I have had plenty of interesting work as an Engineer. Engineering is a dynamic art, it has developed very rapidly and is a fascinating field to work in. It helps one to acquire business skill and put forth continuous effort to do more and to do better.</p>
		<p>Is life worth living? Are the pleasures and enjoyments of life sufficient compensation for its pains, disappointments and disillusionments? These questions have been asked before. Well, I do not like to dwell on problems which have a personal aspect, but I should like to say I entered Government service 64 years ago and served in succession under three Governments. During this long career--I am nearing ninety now-I have had some unusual experiences, and on the whole, life has been a great fascination at times. It has given me pleasures in plenty, sorrows with a sparing hand, if it were offered again, I would gladly accept it.</p>
		<p>The French Philosopher M. Earnest Renan has something interesting to say on this topic. His view is :</p>
		<p>That ideal does not exist in this work-a-day world. Life is a struggle, life is hard and painful, but we have within us strength to surmount our stumbling blocks. Keep your conscience in rectitude, your aim﻿ 172 noble, your will firm and constant ; let happen what may, on that foundation we can build up our lives.</p>
		<p class="text-center"><strong>Progress in Mysore</strong></p>
		<p>My information regarding affairs in this State is not quite up-to-date, but I should not like to close this address without referring, however briefly it may be, to some of the special activities and achievements of Mysore,</p>
		<p>The Mysore State has some remarkable examples of ancient stone statuary and of temple architecture. The State is also distinguished by its underground gold deposits, its high mountains, picturesque scenery, thick forests and deep waterfalls. The country's surface is strewn with tanks at the rate of one tank on an average to every square mile. The State has some fine achievements to show in practical administration and industrial life.</p>
		<p>Hydro-electric works were for the first time installed and encouraged in the State during the reign of the late noble Ruler, His Highness Sri Krishnaraja Wadiyar Bahadur. The earliest power installation in hydroelectric works was at the Sivasamudram Falls promoted during the term of office of Dewan Sir K. Seshadri Iyer.</p>
		<p>The first largest storage reservoir built. anywhere in India was the Krishnarajasagara in Mysore. It was designed and constructed entirely by Indian Engineers.</p>
		<p>The combination of the storage reservoir and the subsequent great growth of electricity works has resulted in spreading electricity on the grid system over a large part of the State. These have also added greatly to the electric power supplied to the Kolar Gold Fields.</p>
		<p>The whole of the Cauvery River Valley Works have developed automatically into a <em>miniature</em> multi-purpose scheme like the famous T. V. A. (Tennessee Valley Authority in the United States of America. The T.V.A. has cost about Rs. 250 crores against about Rs. Io crores﻿ spent on our scheme. Though comparatively much smaller in size, the Krishnarajasagara scheme is already yielding a gross annual income, direct and indirect, to the people served by it, of about Rs. 15 crores and a net revenue to Government, also both direct and indirect, of about 15 per cent on the combined capital invested.</p>
		<p>Gold mining at the Kolar Gold Fields is being pursued and practised for: aver 50 years by a British firm of Mining Engineers.</p>
		<p>The Mysore Iron and Steel Works at Bhadravati was the second steel works started in India since the establishment of the Tata Iron and Steel Works at Jamshedpur. The Jamshedpur installation is the largest steel works in the British Commonwealth. Compared to it, the Bhadravati works is a small venture. :</p>
		<p>A large number of modern industries requiring high technical skill have been established in various parts of the State and are being run successfully under the supervision of the State Government and its technical staff. Among these may be mentioned - Cotton Mills, Silk Mills, Filatures, Sugar, Cement, Paper, Glass, Porcelain, small Electrical Goods, small Machine Tools, Sandalwood Oil, Fertilizers, Vegetable Oil, and others.</p>
		<p>A large hydro-electric installation expected to produce eventually 180,000 K. W. has just been completed at the Jog Falls on the Sharavati river in the Shimoga District.</p>
		<p>It will be seen that the Mysore State has been a land of industry, enterprise and progress unequalled by any other part of the Indian Union of similar size or popusation. The Government of Mysore have every reason to feel proud of their achievements in promoting public works and industrial expansion within the State.﻿</p>
	</section>
</body>
</html>
