<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
	xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<title>ಭಗವಾನ್ ಶ್ರೀರಾಮಕೃಷ್ಣ /Bhagavan Sriramakrishna</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/style.css" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="page">

<nav epub:type="toc" id="toc">
	
<ol>
<li><a href="000a-title.xhtml#id-000a">Title Page</a></li>
<li><a href="000c-preface.xhtml#id-000c">FOREWORD</a></li>
<li><a href="000c-preface.xhtml#id-000c.1">PUBLISHERS NOTE</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter.xhtml#id-001">Address delivered at the Convocation of the University of Mysore on Saturday 8th December 1951, by Raiasevasaktha Sri A. R. Wadia, Pro-Vice-Chancellor MS. University of Baroda</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter.xhtml#id-002">Address delivered at the Convocation of  the University of Mysore on Tuesday, 2nd December 1952, by Sir Ivor Jennings. Vice-Chancellor of the University of Ceylon.</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter.xhtml#id-003"> Address delivered at the Mysore University Convocation on 9th October 1954, by Sir S.V. Ramamurthy, M.A., D. Litt.. I.C.S., K.C.I.E.</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter.xhtml#id-004">Address delivered at the Convocation of the University of Mysore on Thursday, 27th October 1955, by Prof. M.S. Thacker Director, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, Government of India</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter.xhtml#id-005">Address delivered at the Convocation of 
		the University of Mysore on Saturday, 1st February 1958, by Padmavibhushan Shri M.C. Setalvad, Attorney-Goneral of India.</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter.xhtml#id-006">Address delivered at the Convocation of the University of Mysore on Sunday 2nd October 1960 by Anna Rao Ganamukhi, Minister for Education and Pro-Chancellor, Mysore University</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter.xhtml#id-007">Address delivered at the Convocation of the University of Mysore on Monday 10th December 1962 by Dr. D.S. KothariChairman, University Grants Commission, New Delhi</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter.xhtml#id-008">﻿ Address delivered at the Convocation of the University of Mysore on Monday 29th November 1965 by Jayaprakash Narayan</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter.xhtml#id-009">﻿﻿ Address delivered at the Convocation of the University of Mysore on Tuesday 27th January 1970 by Prof. V.K.R.V. Rao, Union Minister of Education and Youth Services</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter.xhtml#id-010">﻿﻿ Address delivered at the Convocation of the University of Mysore on Sunday 8th February 1976 By Dr. H.N. Sethna, Chairman, Atomic Energy Commission, Bombay</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter.xhtml#id-011">﻿﻿ CONVOCATION ADDRESS BY SRI ARJUN SINGH, HON'BLE UNION MINISTER FOR HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA, NEW DELHI ON THURSDAY, 10 FEBRUARY 1994</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter.xhtml#id-012">CONVOCATION ADDRESS BY DR. A.P.J. ABDUL KALAM, SCIENTIFIC ADVISER TO RAKSHA MANTRI AND SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF DEFENCE RESEARCH &amp; DEVELOPMENT ON 25 FEBRUARY 1995</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter.xhtml#id-013">ADDRESS</a></li>
</ol>

</nav>



</div>
</body>
</html>
