<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<title>Volume - II Convocation Addresses of The University of Mysore</title>
	<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" />
</head>
<body class="maintext">
	<section class="level1 unnumbered" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" id="id-000c">
		<h1 class="level1-title" epub:type="title">Foreword</h1>
		<p>We are happy to place in your esteemed hands the
		Convecation Addresses delivered at the Annual Convocations
		of the University of Mysore, Mysore eversince 1918. This is
		being brought out in a eompendious form in view of the general
		demand from the reading public as also the need for stock taking
		the degree of our own progress and advancement. Of late there has.'produced and the responses it has offered.</p>
		<p>A university is supposed to be the highest seat of learning and it is learning and education that has distinguished ' man from the rest of the creation. The most serious change
		that is levelled against Indian universities is that they are ivory
		, towers devoid of social responsibility and totally cut off from
		the Social reality. One of our objectives in bringing out this
		compilation is only to clarify the charge and make our own stand clear.
		</p>
		<p>While writing these lines we should not forget the efforts of flthe late Shri C. Hayavadana Rao who brought out as early as 1930, the convocation addresses until that year and what we
		have attempted" here is in a way a continuation of his efforts.
		We intend to bring out‘ a few more addresses in a separate volume. This was because of thelimited time ‘at our diSposal and the desire‘to ‘release them on the auspicious occasion of the 54th session of the Indian
		History Congress held on 16,17 and 18 December. 1993, as such a few discrepancies might have creeped into this compilation. However, it is our hope that the purpose of bringing together of scattered material has been fulfilled. We appreciate the invaluable help received from the Registrar, Sri S.K Pattanayak, I.A.S., the Registrar(Evaluation) Sri A.K. Monnappa,K.A.S., the Finance Officer, Sri A.S Shivanandacharya and the Director(I/C) of University Printing press Sri B.S. Sidde Gowda and his staff. Our heart-felt thanks go to them on this occasion</p>
		<p class="text-right">Prof. M. Madaiah<br /> Vice-Chancellor<br /> &#38; Chief Editor</p>
		<p class="verse">13-12-1993<br />Crawford Hall</p>
		<p class="text-right">Editors<br />Prof. O. Anantharamaiah<br />Dr. K.S. Shivanna</p>
		</section>
	</body>
	</html>
