<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<title>>Mysore University Convocation Addresses</title>
	<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" />
</head>
<body class="maintext">
	<div class="footnote">
		<aside epub:type="footnote">
			<p class="footnote-head">Footnotes</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-01">
			<p>* <span class="en">This Address by Sir Abdur Rahim was the Convocation Address for the year. The Address of Mr. H.V. Nanjundayya printed in the preceding pages (25 to 32) was delivered by him in opening the proceedings of the day.</span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-02">			
			<p>* <em>Calcutta Review.</em> "How Learning was honoured among the Ancient Hindus," by S. Krishnaswami Aiyangar, January 1922, p. 49.</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-03">
			<p>** <em>Indian Pandits in the Land of Snow,</em> by Sarat Chandra Das, quoted in the <em>Vishva-Bharati Quarterly,</em> April 1924, pp. 58-59.﻿</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-04">		
			<p>* India, p. 384, col. 1.﻿</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-05">			
			<p>* <em>Vishwa-Bharati Quarterly,</em> p.64, April 1924. This is a most delightful and instructive Magazine for all lovers of India.﻿</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-06">		
			<p>* <em>Some Contributions of South India to Indian Culture,</em> by S. Krishnaswami Aiyangar, M.A.Ph.D. (pp.9 and 10). 1923.﻿</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-07">			
			<p>* <em>Tamil Studies,</em> by M. Srinivasa Aiyangar, M.A. p. 237, 1914.﻿</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-08">	
			<p>* <em>South Indian Research,</em> Monthly Supplement. December 1923, "Shorthand in Ancient India" by Rao Saheb R. Krishna Rao Bhonsle, M.R.A.S., pp. 12, 13﻿</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-09">		
			<p>* <em>Vishua-Bharati Quarterly,</em> October 1923, p. 227.﻿</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-10">
			<p>*Preface, pp. ix, x. I am using the six-volume edition, "translated from the Pali by various hands under the Editorship of Professor E.B. Cowell," published at various dates. The numbers of the Jatakas are given, not the pages.﻿</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-11">		
			<p>* <em>Lord Gournaga,</em> by Shishir Kumar Ghose, p. XIII.</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-12">	
			<p>** <em>Ancient Indian Education,</em> by Rev. T.E. Keay, M.A. p. 63.﻿</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-13">		
			<p>It must be remembered that the Hindu Period ran also concurrently with the Buddhist. They ran peaceably side by side.﻿</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-14">
			<p>* Quoted in Civilization in Ancient India, by Romesh Chandra Dutt, C.I.E., Vol. II, p. 56, 1893.﻿</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-15">
			<p>* <em>Civilization in Ancient India,</em> R.C. Dutt, p. 127.﻿</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-16">
			<p>* <em>Village Administration in British India,</em> quoted in Lectures on Political Science, by Annie Besant, (pp. 95, 96). 1919.﻿</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-17">
			<p>* Ibid., p. 96. See Note D, appended to James Mill's History of British India, Vol. I, p. 371.</p>	
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-18">
			<p>* Ibid., pp. 96 97. See loc.cit., Chap. II, Para 5, p. 43.﻿</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-19">
			<p>* <em>Ancient Indian Education,</em> by Rev. F.E. Keay, pp. 145, 146.﻿</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-20">
			<p>*Adopting as his text the dictum of Carlyle that the modern University is a University of books, Mr. H.G. Wells says:</p>
			<p>"Now the frank recognition of the book and not the lecture as the substantial basis of instruction opens up a large and interesting range of possibilities. It releases the process of learning from its old servitude to place and to time. It is no longer necessary for the student to go to a particular room, at a particular hour to hear the golden words drop from the lips of a particular teacher. The young man reads at 11 o'clock in the morning in luxurious rooms in Trinity College, Cambridge, will have no very marked advantage over another young man, employed during the day, who reads at 11 o'clock at night in a bed. sitting room in Glasgow."﻿</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-21">
			<p class="verse">*योगस्थ कुरु कर्माणि सङ्गं त्यक्त्वा, धनंजय,<br /> सिद्धयसिद्धयाः समो भुत्वा, समत्वं योग उच्यते ।﻿</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-22">		
			<p class="verse">*वयान् स्वधर्मो विगुणाः परधर्मात्स्वनुष्ठितात्,<br /> स्वधमें निधनं श्रेयः, परधर्मो भयावह: ।</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-23">
			<p class="verse">*श्रूयतां धर्म मवस्वं, श्रुत्वा चैवा वधायताम्,<br /> आत्मनः प्रा कूला न, पन्षां न समाच त् ।﻿</p>
		</aside>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
