<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
	xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<title>Whatever</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/style.css" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="page">

<nav epub:type="toc" id="toc">
	
<ol>
<li><a href="000a-title.xhtml#id-000a">Title Page</a></li>
<li><a href="000c-preface001.xhtml#id-000c">Foreword</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-001">Speech delivered at the First Corivocation of the University of Mysore on 19th October 1918 by His Highness The Maharaja of Mysore, Chancellor.</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-002">Address delivered at the First Convocation of the University of Mysore on 19th October 1918 by Sir Asutosh Mookerjee, late Vice-Chancellor of the University of Calcutta.</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-003">Address delivered at the Convocation of the University of Mysore on 10th October 1919 by Rajamantrapravina H.V. Nanjundayya, Esq., C.I.E., M.A., M.L., Vice-Chancellor.</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-004">Address delivered at the Convocation of the University of Mysore on 10th October 1919 by Sir Abdur Rahim, Ag. Chief Justice, High Court, Madras.</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-005">Address delivered at the Convocation of the University of Mysore on 1st November 1920 by Sir Leslie Creery Miller, Kt., C.B.E., Vice-Chancellor</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-006">Address delivered at the Convocation of the University of Mysore on the 14th October 1921 by Dr. Brajendranath Seal, M.A., Ph.D., Vice-Chancellor</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-007">Address delivered at the Convocation of the University of Mysore on 4th October by Munir-ul-Talim H.J. Bhabha, M.A.</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-008">Address delivered at the Convocation of the University of Mysore on 24th October, 1923 by Sir P.S. Sivaswamy Aiyar, K.C.S.I., C.I.E.</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-009">Address delivered at the Convocation of the University of Mysore by Dr. Annie Besant,D.L., on 29th October,1924</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-010">Address delivered at the Convocation of the University of Mysore on 14th September,1925, by the Rt. Hon'ble V.S. Srinivasa Sastri, P.C.</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-011">Address delivered at the Convocation of the University of Mysore on 27th November 1926, by Sir P.C. Ray</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-012">Address delivered at the Convocation of the University of Mysore, on the 3rd November 1927, by Sir Jagadis Chandra Bose, Kt., C.S.I., C.I.E., M.A., D.Sc., F.R.S.</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-013">Address delivered at the Convocation of the University of Mysore, on the 23rd August 1928, by C.R. Reddy, Esq., M.A. (Cantab.), Bar-at-Law, Vice-Chancellor, Andhra University</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-014">Address delivered at the Convocationof the University of Mysore, on the 24th August 1929, by Sir C.V. Raman,Kt., M.A., D.Sc. (Hons.), F.R.S.</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-015">ADDRESSBy Dr. E. P. METCALFE, D.Sc., F. Inst. P., Vice-Chancellor,University of Mysore, at the Convocation of theUniversity of Mysore, on the 29th October 1986.</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-016">YOUR HIGHNESS, MR. VICE-CHANCELLOR,GRADUATES OF THE YEAR, LADIES ANDGENTLEMEN:</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-017">ADDRESSBY REV. C. F. ANDREWS, AT THE CONVOCATIONOF THE UNIVERSITY OF MYSORE; ON THE 6TH OCTOBER 1938.</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-018">ADDRESSDelivered at the Convocation of the Universityof Mysore, on the 30th September 1944, by Rajadharmapravina Diwan BahadurK. S. Chandrasekhara Aiyar</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-019">ADDRESSDelivered at the Convocation of the University ofMysore on Thursday, 3rd November 1949 by Dr. Syama Prasad Mookerjee.</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-020">ADDRESSDelivered at the Mysore University Convocation on 8thJanuary 1954, by Radha Kumud Mookerji, M.P.,M.A., PH.D.,D.Litt.</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-021">Summary of the Address delivered in Kannada at theMysore University Convocation on 10th December1956 by Shri R. R. Diwakar, Governor of Bihar.</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-022">YOUR HIGHNESS THE CHANCELLOR, Mr. VICECHANCELLOR, FELLOWS AND GRADUATES OF THE MYSORE UNIVERSITY,</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-023">ADDRESS BY SRI PRAKASAon Saturday, 5th Dec. 1964 FELLOW STUDENTS,</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-024">CONVOCATION ADDRESSBY DR. ZAKIR HUSAIN15th December, 1966﻿﻿</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-025">ADDRESS BY Pdt. H.N. KUNZRUon Saturday, 18th Jan. 1969</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-026">ADDRESS BY D.C. PAVATE 12th Dec. 1970ಕುಲಾಧಿಪತಿಗಳಾದ ಶ್ರೀ ಧರ್ಮವೀರರೆ, ಕುಲಪತಿಗಳಾದ ಪ್ರೊ. ಜವರೇಗೌಡರೆ, ಮಹಿಳೆಯರೆ, ಮಹನೀಯರೆ, ವಿವಿಧ ಪರೀಕ್ಷೆಗಳಲ್ಲಿ ಉತ್ತೀರ್ಣರಾಗಿರುವ ವಿದ್ಯಾರ್ಥಿ-ವಿದ್ಯಾರ್ಥಿನಿಯರೆ :</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-027">ADDRESS BY S.S. RAYon Sunday, 16th Jan. 1972 MR. CHANCELLOR, MR. VICE-CHANCELLOR, LADIES ANDGENTLEMEN AND GRADUATES OF THE YEAR :</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-028">ADDRESS BY S. NURUL HASAN on Saturday, 13th Jan.Mr. Chancellor, Mr. Pro-Chancellor,Mr. Vice-Chancellor, Distinguished Guests and Graduates of the year,</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-029">ADDRESS BY Dr. GEORGE JACOB on Sunday, 20th Jan. 1974MR. CHANCELLOR, MR. PRO-CHANCELLOR, MR. VICECHANCELLOR, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, AND GRADUATES OF THE YEAR:</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-030">ADDRESS BY DR. RAJA RAMANNA on Saturday, 21st Dec. 1974Mr. Chancellor, Mr. Pro-Chancellor, Mr. ViceChancellor, Members of the Senate, Ladies and Gentlemen:</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-031">ADDRESS BY ERIC STOKES on Sunday, 6th Feb. 1977Mr. VICE-CHANCELLOR, LADIES AND GENTLEMENAND GRADUATES OF THE YEAR</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-032">ADDRESS BY ASHOK MITRAon Saturday, 23rd Apr.1978</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-033">ADDRESS BY K. SHIVARAMA KARANTHon Saturday, 21 Apr.1979</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-034">Address delivered at the Sixtieth Convocation(Diamond Jubilee Convocation)of the University of Mysoreon 17th January 1980by Shri Neelam Sanjeeva Reddi,President of India</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-035">ADDRESS BY Y. NAYUDAMMAon Saturday, 7th Feb.1981Mr. Chancellor, Mr. Vice-Chancellor,Graduates of the year, Ladies and Gentlemen</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-036">ADDRESS BY General K.V.K. RAO on Monday, 7th Dec. 1981Mr Chancellor, Mr Vice Chancellor, Membersof the Senate, Ladies and Gentlemen,</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-037">ADDRESS BY Dr. BALRAM JAKHARon Saturday, 22nd Jan. 1983Mr. Chancellor, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, Members of the Senate, Ladies and Gentlemen</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-038">ADDRESS BY R. VENKATARAMAN on Thursday, 16th Feb. 1984Mr. Chancellor, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, Ladies and Gentlemen and Graduates of the year</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-039">ADPRESS BY B. SHANKARANANDAon Friday, 21st Mar. 1986ಕುಲಾಧಿಪತಿಗಳೆ, ಕುಲಪತಿಗಳೆ, ಈ ವಿಶ್ವವಿದ್ಯಾನಿಲಯದ ಪ್ರಾಧ್ಯಾಪಕ ವರ್ಗದವರೆ, ನವಪದವೀಧರರೆ, ವಿದ್ಯಾರ್ಥಿಗಳೆ, ಬಂಧುಗಳೆ, ಭಗಿನಿಯರೆ, </a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-040">Saturday, 14th Mar. 1987 CONVOCATION ADDRESS BYMr. K. R. NARAYANAN,UNION MINISTER OF STATE FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY,ATOMIC ENERGY, SPACE, ELECTRONICS AND OCEAN DEVELOPMENT</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-041">ADDRESS BY Justice E.S. VENKATARAMIAH on Tuesday, 1st Mar. 1988Hon'ble Chancellor, Hon'ble Vice-Chancellor,Graduates of the Year, Brothers and Sisters,</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-042">CONVOCATION ADDRESS BY Smt. MARGARET ALVA,MINISTER OF STATE IN THE MINISTRY OFHUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA.</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-043">CONVOCATION ADDRESS BY Dr. VS ARUNACHALAM,SCIENTIFIC ADVISER TO THE DEFENCE MINISTER AND SECRETARY,DEPARTMENT OF DEFENCE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, MINISTRY OF DEFENCE.</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-044">Hon'ble Chancellor, Madame Vice-Chancellor, Hon'ble members of theSyndicate, Senate and cademic council, Distinguished guests,Graduates of the year, Ladies and Gentlemen,</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-045">CONVOCATION ADDRESS BY Dr MANMOHAN SINGH,HỌN'BLE UNION MINISTER FOR FINANCE, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA, NEW DELHI.</a></li>
<li><a href="001-chapter001.xhtml#id-046">CONVOCATION ADDRESS BY PROF. ERIC R. GILBERTSON, PRESIDENT, SAGINAW VALLEY STATE UNIVERSITY, UNIVERSITYCENTER, MICHIGAN, U. S. A.</a></li>
</ol>

</nav>



</div>
</body>
</html>
